u'In 2154 , humans have depleted Earth\ Administration for short ) mines for a valuable mineral \xe2\x80\x94 , a densely forested habitable moon orbiting the gas giant Polyphemus Centauri , whose atmosphere is poisonous to humans , is inhabited by the Na\'vi explore Pandora\ Sully , replaces his deceased identical twin brother as an operator of one . Dr. Grace Augustine Program an inadequate replacement but accepts his assignment as a bodyguard . While protecting the avatars of Grace . Norm Spellman 's avatar is attacked by a thanator and flees into the forest , where he is rescued by Neytiri . Witnessing an auspicious sign , she takes him to her clan , whereupon Neytiri\ , the clan\ 's spiritual leader , orders her daughter to initiate Jake Quaritch 's private security force , promises Jake that the company will restore his legs if he gathers information about the Na\'vi , [ 36 ] which stands above the richest deposit of unobtanium in the area . When Grace , and Norm grows to sympathize with the natives . After Jake choose each other as mates , and soon afterward , Jake site . When Quaritch shows a video recording of Jake\ Parker Selfridge admits that the Na\'vi , Selfridge destroyed.\n\nDespite Grace\ could damage the biological neural network native to Pandora gives Jake one hour to convince the Na\'vi , Jake take him and Grace 's men destroy Hometree 's father ( the clan chief ) and many others . Mo\'at and Grace 's forces . Pilot Trudy Chac\xc3\xb3n 's brutality , frees Jake and Grace 's outpost , but during the escape Quaritch regain the Na\'vi\ connects his mind to that of Toruk . Jake of Souls to heal Grace from her human body into her avatar with the aid of the Tree , but she dies before the process can be completed . Supported by the new chief Tsu\'tey speaks to unite the clan and tells them to gather all of the clans to battle against the RDA organizes a pre-emptive strike against the Tree , believing that its destruction will demoralize the natives . On the eve of battle , Jake , via a neural connection with the Tree , to intercede on behalf of the Na\'vi.\n\nDuring the subsequent battle , the Na\'vi and Trudy wildlife unexpectedly join the attack and overwhelm the humans , which Neytiri 's answer to Jake\ destroys a makeshift bomber before it can reach the Tree ; Quaritch suit , escapes from his own damaged aircraft and breaks open the avatar link unit containing Jake\ 's poisonous atmosphere . Quaritch prepares to slit the throat of Jake\ kills Quaritch , Norm and sent back to Earth is permanently transferred into his avatar with the aid of the Tree 1996 , treasure hunter Brock Lovett Mstislav Keldysh Titanic of the Ocean 14 , 1912 , the day the ship struck the iceberg . [ Note 1 ] Rose Dawson Calvert and tells Lovett 1912 Southampton DeWitt Bukater Hockley board the luxurious Titanic emphasizes that Rose\ over the engagement , Rose Dawson , Rose saved her from falling . When Cal deserves a reward . He invites Jack and Rose and Ruth secretly joins Jack and Ruth\ rebuffs Jack\ . After rendezvousing on the bow at sunset , Rose to her state room ; at her request , Jack posing nude wearing Cal\ of the Ocean 's bodyguard , Mr. Lovejoy 's sketch of Rose and Rose of the collision , Lovejoy 's pocket and he and Cal is arrested , taken to the master-at-arms\ ' office , and handcuffed to a pipe . Cal flees Cal . On the boat deck , Cal encourage her to board a lifeboat ; Cal off safely . After Rose boards one , Cal the arrangement is only for himself . As her boat lowers , Rose and jumps back on board . Cal and Jack realizes he gave his coat and consequently the necklace to Rose and Rose and Rose dies of hypothermia [ 8 ] but Rose hiding from Cal Carpathia York City gives her name as Rose Dawson says she later read that Cal Street Crash decides to abandon his search after hearing Rose\ , Rose of the Ocean \xe2\x80\x93 and drops it into the sea over the wreck site . While she is seemingly asleep or has died in her bed , [ 9 ] photos on her dresser depict a life of freedom and adventure inspired by the life she wanted to live with Jack young Rose at the Titanic\ Staircase Civil War Order Empire Republic and led by General Leia Organa searches for her brother , Luke Skywalker.\n\nOn , Resistance Dameron 's location from Lor San Tekka Ren , while Kylo Tekka 's droid BB-8 , near a junkyard settlement . Kylo using the Force . Stormtrooper FN-2187 Order , and they escape in a stolen TIE names FN-2187 '' . As they turn back to Jakku , they are shot down by a First Order Star Destroyer survives and assumes that Poe and BB-8 , Rey flee the planet in the Millennium Falcon is captured by a larger ship piloted by Han Solo , looking to reclaim their former vessel . The group is attacked by gangs seeking to settle debts with Han . At the First Order\ Base Leader Snoke Hux questions Kylo\ Solo says means nothing to him.\n\nThe Falcon 's map is incomplete . Han attempted to rebuild the Jedi Order and meets with cantina owner Maz Kanata to the Resistance is drawn to a secluded vault and finds the lightsaber that once belonged to Luke Skywalker gives Finn destroys a few planets including the Republic in search of BB-8 , Chewbacca are saved by Resistance , who is revealed to have survived the crash on Jakku arrives at Takodana and reunites with Han . Meanwhile , Kylo and takes her to Starkiller Base , Rey mind trick on a nearby guard.\n\nAt the Resistance , BB-8 , who has been inactive since Luke\ Base , the Resistance , Han , and Finn , and plant explosives . Han , calling him by his birth name , Ben refuses and kills Han , who shoots Kylo pursues Finn to the surface . Kylo in a lightsaber duel , leaving him wounded . Rey to defeat Kylo orders Hux to him to complete his training . Rey escape with the unconscious Finn . On D\'Qar , Chewbacca mourn Han\ follows to the oceanic planet Ahch-To and presents him with the lightsaber.\n\nHaving acquired the Power Stone Stones , from the planet Xandar , Thanos , Cull Obsidian Midnight Glaive\xe2\x80\x94intercept . [ N Stone , Thanos , overpowers Hulk and Heimdall to Earth before being killed . Thanos departs with his lieutenants and obliterates the ship.\n\nHulk crash-lands at the Sanctum Sanctorum York City Banner Strange about Thanos\ recruits Tony Stark and Obsidian Stone , drawing the attention of Peter Parker captures Strange Stone and Parker 's spaceship , Banner Rogers stays behind to guard the Sanctum.\n\nIn Edinburgh and Glaive Maximoff in order to retrieve the Mind Stone 's forehead . Rogers , Natasha Romanoff Wilson Rhodes at the Avengers Facility offers to sacrifice himself by having Maximoff Stone from retrieving it , but Maximoff , which he believes has the resources to remove the stone without destroying Vision.\n\nThe respond to a distress call from the Asgardian ship and rescue Thor seeks the Reality Stone on Knowhere and Groot to Nidavellir create Stormbreaker . On Knowhere Quill , Drax find Thanos Stone kidnaps Gamora Stone from torture . Thanos travel to Vormir Skull Stone reluctantly kills Gamora to meet her on Thanos\ . Stark kill Maw . Landing on Titan , Drax . The group forms a plan to remove Thanos\ Gauntlet uses the Time Stone loses . Thanos deduces that Thanos . Enraged attacks him , allowing Thanos is seriously wounded by Thanos surrenders the Time Stone.\n\nIn Wakanda reunites with Bucky Barnes ' army invades . The Avengers , alongside T\'Challa forces , mount a defense while Shuri Stone . Banner , fights in Stark\ armor . Thor , and Groot , Obsidian are killed and their army is routed . Despite Maximoff\ Stone arrives and reverts time to remove it from Vision\ , but Thanos Gauntlet of all life across the universe disintegrates , including Barnes , T\'Challa , Maximoff , Mantis , Quill , and Parker Hill Fury is able to transmit a signal first . [ N Stark remain on Titan , M\'Baku , Rhodes , Rogers , and Thor battlefield . Meanwhile , Thanos and Gray Mitchell World Park Nublar Dearing assigns her assistant as the boys\ ' guide but they evade her and explore on their own . Elsewhere on the island , U.S. Navy Grady Hoskins Security and his assistant Barry and park owner Simon Masrani rex , a genetically-engineered dinosaur created by geneticist Dr. Henry Wu tasks Owen warns Claire lacks social skills , making it dangerous and unpredictable . When it appears the Indominus and two park workers enter the enclosure . The Indominus survives the attack , but it kills the other two men before escaping into the island\ 's interior . Owen to have the Indominus dispatches a specialized unit to subdue it with non-lethal weaponry . After most of the unit is wiped out , Claire and Gray arrives and destroys the vehicle but the boys escape . They find the ruins of the original Jurassic Park Wrangler and Owen . Masrani by helicopter but it breaks into the park\ 's aviary , releasing pterosaurs \xe2\x80\x93 Pteranodon species \xe2\x80\x93 and Zach and Claire ; Owen and the animals begin communicating among themselves . Owen realizes the Indominus DNA 's dominance . Troops but it escapes . The raptors kill most of the troops , but one raptor is killed . Hoskins and the dinosaur embryos from the island to protect Wu\ , Claire reappears . They attack the Indominus rex and lures it into a battle with the Indominus rex until Blue , the Indominus . The survivors are evacuated and the island is abandoned again . Zach are reunited with their parents ; Owen decide to stay together.\n\nThe Asgardian Loki . In exchange for retrieving the Tesseract N an army with which he can subjugate Earth Fury , and his lieutenant Agent Maria Hill Erik Selvig . Agent Phil Coulson suddenly activates and opens a wormhole , allowing Loki . Loki and uses his scepter to enslave Selvig Barton reactivates the `` Avengers Initiative Natasha Romanoff to recruit Dr. Bruce Banner through its gamma radiation emissions . Coulson Stark 's research , and Fury Rogers Stuttgart steals iridium needed to stabilize the Tesseract\ causes a distraction , leading to a brief confrontation with Rogers , and Romanoff 's surrender . While Loki , Thor . After a confrontation with Stark , Thor to S.H.I.E.L.D.\ . Upon arrival , Loki and Stark Avengers and the revelation that S.H.I.E.L.D to develop weapons as a deterrent against hostile extraterrestrials . As the group argues , Barton 's other possessed agents attack the Helicarrier to transform into the Hulk and Rogers attempts to stop the Hulk\ reluctantly fights Barton 's mind control . Loki and ejecting Thor from the airship , while the Hulk . fighter jet . Fury 's death to motivate the Avengers and Rogers , simply defeating them will not be enough ; he needs to overpower them publicly to validate himself as ruler of Earth uses the Tesseract built , to open a wormhole above Stark Tower fleet in space , launching his invasion.\n\nRogers , Stark , Barton rally in defense of New York City arrives and transforms into the Hulk while evacuating civilians . The Hulk and beats him into submission . Romanoff , freed from Loki\ 's scepter can be used to shut down the generator . Meanwhile , Fury\ Security Council Manhattan intercepts the missile and takes it through the wormhole toward the Chitauri mothership and disabling their forces on Earth 's suit runs out of power , and he falls back through the wormhole just as Romanoff goes into freefall , but the Hulk returns Loki to Asgard expresses confidence that the Avengers will return if and when they are needed.\n\nIn a mid-credits scene , the Other confers with his master [ N . In a post-credits scene , the Avengers Shaw N Dominic '' Toretto O\'Conner States to live normal lives again . Brian begins to accustom himself to life as a father , while Dom Ortiz 's older brother , Deckard Shaw is being held in and swears vengeance against Dom Hobbs\ Security Service ) office to extract profiles of Dom\ engages Hobbs . Dom that she is pregnant again and convinces her to tell Brian , explodes and destroys the Toretto , a member of Dom\ in Tokyo N Dom in a hospital , where he learns that Shaw then travels to Tokyo 's body , and meets and races Sean Boswell 's who gives him personal items found at Han\ 's funeral in Los Angeles notices a car observing them , and after a chase , confronts its driver , who is revealed to be Shaw flees when a covert ops team arrives and opens fire , led by Mr. Nobody in stopping Shaw 's Eye , from a mercenary named Mose Jakande , Brian , Roman Pearce Parker Mountains in Azerbaijan 's convoy , and rescue Ramsey Dhabi 's Eye 's Eye , who is waiting at a remote factory . Dom , Nobody and his team attempt to capture Shaw and his men and forced to flee while Jakande 's Eye and Dom Angeles , Jakande promises Mia , he will retire and fully dedicate himself to their family.\n\nWhile Jakande and the rest of the team with a stealth helicopter and an aerial drone , Ramsey 's Eye , seeing the team in trouble , leaves the hospital and destroys the drone with an ambulance . Brian 's henchman Kiet to regain control of God\ and shut it down . Dom engage in a one-on-one brawl on top of a public parking garage , before Jakande is defeated when part of the parking garage collapses beneath him . Dom 's helicopter , tossing Shaw\ then shoots the bag of grenades from ground level , destroying the helicopter and killing Jakande is pulled from the wreckage of his car , believed to be dead . As Letty cradles Dom\ regains consciousness soon after , remarking , `` It\ and locked away in a secret , high-security prison . At a beach , Brian play with their son while Dom , Roman , and Ramsey is better off retired with his family . Dom asks if he\ 's gon na say goodbye . Dom 's never goodbye . '' He drives away , but Brian remembers the times that he had with Brian , the Avengers\xe2\x80\x94Tony Stark Rogers , Bruce Banner Romanoff Barton\xe2\x80\x94raid facility commanded by Baron Wolfgang von Strucker . They encounter two of Strucker\ Maximoff Maximoff , while Stark 's scepter.\n\nStark and Banner 's `` Ultron , believing he must eradicate humanity to save Earth 's A.I . and attacks the Avengers at their headquarters . Escaping with the scepter , Ultron 's Sokovia , he recruits the Maximoffs responsible for their parents\ ' deaths by his company\ 's weapons , and goes to the base of arms dealer Ulysses Klaue to obtain Wakandan and the Maximoffs subdues them with haunting visions , causing the Hulk ) to rampage until Stark 1 ] \n\nA 's hallucinations incited , send the team into hiding at a safe house . Thor departs to consult with Dr. Erik Selvig Fury . In Seoul uses Loki\ Helen Cho uploads himself into the body , Wanda turn against Ultron , Romanoff find Ultron captures Romanoff.\n\nThe Avengers secretly uploads J.A.R.V.I.S.\xe2\x80\x94who inside the Internet\xe2\x80\x94into returns to help activate the body , explaining that the gem on its brow\xe2\x80\x94one of the six Infinity '' and the Maximoffs , where Ultron rescues Romanoff for the battle . The Avengers fight Ultron\ arrives in a Helicarrier Hill Rhodes . agents to evacuate civilians . Pietro from gunfire , and a vengeful Wanda 's primary body , which allows one of his drones to activate the machine . The city plummets , but Stark overload the machine and shatter the landmass . In the aftermath , the Hulk by being with her , departs in a Quinjet confronts and seemingly destroys Ultron\ , Hill , and Selvig returns to Asgard leaves and Barton prepare to train new Avengers : Rhodes , Sam Wilson a mid-credits scene , Thanos N Stones Panther Tribe . Over centuries , the Wakandans use the vibranium to develop advanced technology and isolate themselves from the world by posing as a Third World 's King T\'Chaka , who is working undercover in Oakland . T\'Chaka of assisting black-market arms dealer Ulysses Klaue . N\'Jobu\ , another undercover Wakandan 's suspicions.\n\nIn the present day , following T\'Chaka\ N his son T\'Challa , the leader of the Dora Milaje 's ex-lover Nakia and younger sister Shuri Tribe\ challenges T\'Challa defeats M\'Baku and his accomplice Erik Stevens artifact from a London 's friend and Okoye\ urges him to bring Klaue , and Nakia , South Korea plans to sell the artifact to CIA K. Ross firefight erupts and Klaue , who reluctantly releases him to Ross\ tells Ross 's international image is a front for a technologically advanced civilization . Erik as Ross . Rather , T\'Challa to Wakanda heals Ross confronts Zuri . Zuri planned to share Wakanda\ arrested N\'Jobu and forced T\'Chaka ordered Zuri had disappeared and left behind N\'Jobu\ , a U.S. '' . Meanwhile , Killmonger and takes his body to Wakanda and claim to the throne . Killmonger to ritual combat , where he kills Zuri , and hurls him over a waterfall to his presumed death . Killmonger extracts one first . Killmonger and his army , prepares to distribute shipments of Wakandan , Ramonda flee to the Jabari Tribe , rescued by the Jabari 's life . Healed by Nakia\ returns to fight Killmonger Panther and his army fight Shuri , and the Dora Milaje remotely pilots a jet and shoots down planes carrying the vibranium weapons . M\'Baku arrive to reinforce T\'Challa , W\'Kabi 's vibranium mine , T\'Challa 's suit and stabs him . Killmonger died , to be run by Nakia . In a mid-credits scene , T\'Challa Nations to reveal Wakanda\ helps Bucky Barnes , Harry Potter to help him , Ron Weasley Granger Lestrange\ bank , suspecting a Horcrux agrees in exchange for the Sword . Wandmaker Ollivander that two wands taken from Malfoy Manor and Draco Malfoy 's has changed its allegiance to Harry.\n\nIn the vault , Harry is Helga Hufflepuff\ snatches the sword and abandons the trio , leaving them cornered by security . The three release the dragon guardian and flee on its back . Harry Voldemort , and learns Voldemort also realises there is a Horcrux somehow connected to Rowena Ravenclaw , where Aberforth Dumbledore to fetch Neville Longbottom Snape 's return and warns staff and students of punishment for aiding Harry confronts Snape McGonagall gathers the Hogwarts Lovegood\ speaks to Helena Ravenclaw\ performed `` dark magic '' on her mother\ 's diadem , located in the Room . In the Chamber , Hermione cup with a Basilisk of Requirement , Blaise Zabini Goyle , but Ron intervene . Goyle casts a Fiendfyre and his friends save Malfoy . Harry fang and Ron of Requirement 's army attacks , Harry 's mind , realises that Voldemort\ is the final Horcrux telling Snape Wand until Snape to kill Snape tells Harry . Meanwhile , Fred Weasley Lupin Tonks learns from Snape\ despised Harry\ , who bullied him , he loved his late mother Lily worked with Albus Dumbledore from Voldemort . Harry was dying and wished for Snape doe he saw in the woods that led him to the sword was conjured by Snape discovers that he himself became a Horcrux originally failed to kill him ; he must die to destroy the piece of Voldemort\ surrenders himself to Voldemort Forest casts the Killing Curse , who finds himself in limbo . Dumbledore\ within Harry 's curse . Harry announces Harry\ and demands their surrender . As Neville , Harry and many Death Eaters . While Harry in a duel throughout the castle , Molly Weasley in the Great Hall decapitates Nagini mortal . Harry 's fight ends with Voldemort\ Curse explains to Ron that the Elder Wand , who had earlier disarmed its previous owner , Dumbledore destroys the Elder Wand , Ginny Weasley , Hermione proudly watch their own children leave for Hogwarts at King\ station.\n\nFollowing the battle of Starkiller Base Leia Organa forces to flee D\'Qar fleet arrives . Poe Dameron dreadnought , but after the Resistance convoy . Kylo Ren 's son , hesitates to fire on the lead Resistance leadership and incapacitating Leia . Disapproving Admiral Holdo\ helps Finn , and mechanic Rose Tico Order\ arrives on Ahch-To and R2-D2 Falcon Skywalker . Disillusioned by his failure to train Kylo , and under self-imposed exile from the Force refuses to help \xe2\x80\x93 even after he learns of Han Solo\ 's hands \xe2\x80\x93 and believes the Jedi , Rey communicate through the Force and Kylo to train Rey tells Rey that caused him to choose the dark side , Luke upon sensing that Supreme Leader Snoke to destroy Luke\ Order that Kylo leaves Ahch-To . Luke Jedi 's ghost appears and destroys the temple by summoning a bolt of lightning , claiming Rey to learn from his failure.\n\nHoldo reveals her plan to discreetly evacuate the remaining Resistance members using small transports . Believing her actions cowardly and risky , Poe , Rose travel to the Canto Bight . They infiltrate Snoke\ are captured by Captain Phasma lands on the ship , and Kylo , who says he facilitated the mental connection between her and Kylo . Ordered to kill Rey instead kills Snoke 's guards alongside Rey believes that Kylo , but he instead invites her to rule the galaxy with him . Refusing , she fights Kylo Skywalker\ , allowing the evacuation to begin . Holdo 's fleet as the others flee to an abandoned Rebel Alliance . DJ 's plan to the First Order sacrifices herself by ramming Snoke\ escapes in the chaos , while Kylo Leader frees Finn , who escape after defeating Phasma . When the First Order , Finn attack with old speeders . Rey draw the TIE , while Rose from completing a suicide run against the enemy siege cannon , which subsequently penetrates the Resistance members to escape . Kylo Order\ , to no effect . He then engages Luke , Kylo projection of him . Rey to help the Resistance . Luke and dies peacefully on Ahch-To and Leia tells surviving rebels that the Resistance Bight and Rose and gazes into space.\n\nA small team of mercenaries arrives on the abandoned Isla Nublar rex at the bottom of the park\ 's lagoon . After successfully collecting a bone fragment , the team\ 's survivors barely escape the island following attacks by the Mosasaurus rex . [ 8 ] [ 9 ] \n\nA U.S. Senate , D.C. Nublar\ Ian Malcolm Hammond\ World\ Dearing Protection Group rules against rescuing the dinosaurs , Hammond\ Lockwood California Mills is needed to help reactivate the park\ 's dinosaur tracking system to locate the animals , particularly Blue . Although they are estranged , Claire World\ trainer and Blue\ Grady Nublar and former park technician Franklin Webb Rodriguez Wheatley . The encounter escalates , resulting in a mercenary soldier shooting Blue tranquilizing Owen with them to treat Blue\ mainland as the dinosaurs left behind die in the eruption . Claire , and Owen in transfusing Blue blood . The group now realize that the captured dinosaurs were never being transported to a new island and are for another purpose.\n\nAt the estate , Lockwood\ overhears Mills Eversol , a new genetically-modified dinosaur created by geneticist Dr. Henry Wu rex and Velociraptor DNA wants Blue\ , unaware that Blue\ informs Lockwood is later revealed to have been cloned from Lockwood\ Hammond 's estate and caged . Zia narrowly evade capture , but Owen are apprehended and confined . Owen into breaking open their cell . They find Maisie is being sold despite Wu\ into the room . In the ensuing chaos , Wheatley to extract a tooth as a trophy , but it feigns sedation and kills Wheatley , and others as it escapes . The Indoraptor , Claire throughout the mansion . Zia , who attacks the Indoraptor frees them , despite Owen\ rex bone but is devoured by the Tyrannosaurus , Claire , Zia safely escape , while Blue Senate Malcolm , where humans and dinosaurs must learn to coexist . The closing scenes show the freed dinosaurs roaming wilderness and outer urban areas.\n\nPrincess Elsa possesses paranormal powers that allows her to control and create ice and snow , often using it to play with her younger sister , Anna accidentally injures Anna and Queen Pabbie , but alters her memories to remove traces of Elsa\ and Queen shuts Anna can only suppress her power , causing her to become more insecure . When the sisters are teenagers , their parents die at sea during a storm.\n\nWhen Elsa . She is terrified that the kingdom\ 's citizens might find out about her powers and fear her . The castle gates open to the public and visiting dignitaries for the first time in years . Among them is the scheming Duke and the dashing Prince Hans Isles falls in love with at first sight . Elsa\ . When Hans proposes to Anna objects , accidentally unleashing her powers before the court ; the Duke flees to the North Mountain in an eternal winter.\n\nAnna ventures out to find Elsa Oaken\ and his reindeer , Sven 's sleigh being destroyed . On foot , they meet Olaf , who offers to lead them to her . When Anna\ , Hans and Elsa 's minions , who have secret orders to kill Elsa.\n\nReaching the ice palace , Anna , but when she reveals what has become of Arendelle becomes upset , saying that she can not undo it , and accidentally freezes Anna\ , who chases Anna , and Olaf 's hair begins turning white , so Kristoff Pabbie will freeze solid unless `` an act of true love '' reverses the spell . Kristoff back home so Hans 's palace , defeating Marshmallow . Anna by eliminating both sisters . Hans locks Anna killed her . He orders the queen\ 's execution , only to discover she has escaped her detention cell.\n\nOlaf frees Anna , whom Olaf outside , claiming that she killed Anna to break down . Anna ; she leaps in the way and freezes solid , stopping Hans . Devastated hugs and mourns over her sister , who thaws out , her heroism constituting `` an act of true love '' . Realizing that love is the key to controlling her magic , Elsa his own snow flurry to survive the warmer climate . Both Hans and the Duke gives Kristoff promises never to lock the castle gates again.\n\nA beautiful enchantress disguised as an old beggar woman arrives at a French castle during a ball and offers the host , a cruel and selfish prince , a rose in return for shelter from a storm . When he refuses , she reveals her identity . To punish the prince for his lack of compassion , the enchantress transforms him into a beast and his servants into household objects , then erases the castle , the prince and his servants from the memories of their loved ones ( in the small town of Villeneuve , Belle , dreams of adventure and brushes off advances from Gaston seeks refuge in the Beast\ after having some food , but the Beast . When Maurice\ ventures out in search for him , and finds him locked in the castle dungeon . The Beast 's place.\n\nBelle befriends the castle\ 's servants , who invite her to a spectacular dinner . When she wanders into the forbidden west wing and finds the rose , the Beast rescues her , and is injured in the process . As Belle unlike before . The Beast a gift from the enchantress , a book that transports readers wherever they want . Belle , where she discovers a plague doctor mask and realizes that she and her father were forced to leave when her mother succumbed to the plague.\n\nIn Villeneuve tries to convince the other villagers of the Beast 's imprisonment but no one believes him . Gaston as an opportunity to win her hand in marriage , agrees to help Maurice learns of his ulterior motive and rejects him , Gaston is rescued by the hermit Agathe 's crime and is unable to provide solid evidence , Gaston to an insane asylum.\n\nAfter sharing a romantic dance with the Beast discovers her father\ 's predicament using a magic mirror . The Beast 's happiness before his own releases her to save Maurice , Belle in the mirror to the townsfolk , proving her father\ 's sanity . Realizing that Belle , a jealous Gaston before he curses the whole village . Maurice escape , and Belle abandons his companion LeFou attacks the Beast 's departure to fight back , but regains his spirit upon seeing Belle , but spares his life before reuniting with Belle and unrepentant , Gaston with a gunshot from a bridge , but it collapses when the castle crumbles , and he falls to his death . The injured Beast that he was happy to see her again then he dies in her arms as the last petal falls , and the servants become inanimate . Belle , Agathe then turning him and his servants\ ' human making the villagers\ ' remember their loved ones . The Prince host a ball for the villagers , where they dance happily.\n\nThe Incredibles battle the Underminer . Though they prevent the destruction of City Hall Relocation Program without financial assistance . Violet\ Rydinger Dicker informs Mr and Elastigirl Deavor propose sending the heroes on secret missions which will be recorded and publicized to regain public trust in superheroes.\n\nDue to Mr. Incredible\ chooses Elastigirl is away , Bob has trouble with math homework , Violet unintentionally fails to show up at their date due to his memory wipe , and Jack-Jack brings Jack-Jack Mode to relax from his parenting difficulties . Meanwhile , on her missions , Elastigirl , who projects hypnotic images using television screens . She tracks him down to his hideout in an apartment building , and unmasks him as a deliveryman with no recollection of his actions.\n\nAt a party celebrating the Screenslaver\ announces a summit of world leaders to legalize superheroes , hosted aboard his luxury yacht . Unsettled by the ease with which she captured the Screenslaver realizes that he was controlled by a pair of mind-control goggles . Evelyn , revealing herself as the mastermind behind the Screenslaver explains that she has hated superheroes since Gazerbeam failed to rescue her father from being killed by burglars , concluding that superheroes have taken independence from society . She plans to sabotage her brother\ 's summit and cause a catastrophe that will tarnish the reputation of superheroes , ensuring they remain outlawed forever . Using Helen into a trap , then sends another group of hypnotised superheroes previously invited to the summit to subdue the Parr tries to protect them , but is overwhelmed and placed under Evelyn\ , and Jack-Jack , a high-tech car once owned by Bob . Incredible 's ship . On board , the hypnotized Mr , Elastigirl recite a vindictive manifesto on air to paint superheroes as a threat . They subdue the ship crew , aim the ship at Municiberg removes Elastigirl\ . Incredible . The Parrs release the other mind-controlled superheroes by destroying their goggles , then work together to prevent the ship from crashing into the city by turning the rudders to the side . Evelyn and arrested . Due , after getting reconnected to Violet spot a high-speed pursuit between police and gunmen , Violet at the theater , and the Incredibles `` Dom and Letty Ortiz when Dom\ gets in trouble owing money to local racer Raldo is a loan shark , Dom to a race , pitting Fernando\ 's , and wagering his own show car . After narrowly winning the race , Dom to keep his car , earning his respect , and instead leaves his cousin with his show car.\n\nThe next day , Dom who coerces him into working for her . Shortly afterwards , Dom , Roman Pearce Parker , are recruited by Diplomatic Security Service ) agent Luke Hobbs device from a military outpost in Berlin goes rogue , forcing Hobbs . Hobbs Shaw and Hobbs Nobody and capture Cipher reveals that Cipher Shaw device and Mose Jakande 's Eye 's software program . The team tracks Dom to their very location just as the latter two attack the base and steal God\ . When Dom 's motives , she reveals that she has been holding hostage Dom\ agent Elena Neves\xe2\x80\x94as was previously unaware . Elena that she wanted him to decide the child\ 's first name , having already given him the middle name Marcos.\n\nIn New York City sends Dom of Defence to the theft , Dom the help of Raldo\xe2\x80\x94and and Owen\ Shaw can take the football . The team intercepts Dom escapes , shooting and apparently killing Deckard catches up to Dom 's enforcer , Connor Rhodes rescues her . In retaliation , Cipher execute Elena infiltrates a base in Russia device to disable their security and then to disable a nuclear submarine , enabling Cipher , whose death was apparently faked , teams up with Owen 's behest , infiltrates Cipher\ 's son . Once Deckard turns on Cipher , avenging Elena\ fires an infrared homing missile at Dom , shielding him from the ensuing explosion . Deckard , who jumps from the plane with a parachute.\n\nMr . Nobody and his prot\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9 visit Dom York City is still at large in Athens is offered his DSS delivers Dom and Hobbs names his son Brian O\'Conner Year\ party in 1999 , Tony Stark Hansen that allows recovery from crippling injuries . Disabled scientist Aldrich Killian Idea rejects him . In 2013 , Stark of New York.2 Restless Man suits , creating friction with his girlfriend Pepper Potts.\n\nA has left intelligence agencies bewildered by a lack of forensic evidence . Stark\ Hogan to brazenly issue a televised threat to the Mandarin sends gunship helicopters to destroy Stark\ , who came to warn Stark . Stark Man . pilots to rural Tennessee 's investigation into the Mandarin 's new armor is not fully functional , and lacks sufficient power to return to California , a 10-year-old boy , Stark attack . He discovers the `` bombings '' were triggered by soldiers subjected to Extremis 's flaws . Stark firsthand when Mandarin and Savin resurfaces and kidnaps Potts . American intelligence agencies continue to search for the Mandarin\ Rhodes\xe2\x80\x94the Machine Patriot\xe2\x80\x94lured Man-like 's help , Stark to Miami is actually an English actor named Trevor Slattery 's Extremis behind Slattery\ , Killian to Extremis will help fix Extremis\ , discovering that Killian Ellis Force Patriot saves some surviving passengers and crew but can not stop Killian and destroying Air Force One to an impounded damaged oil tanker where Killian on live television . The Vice President 's orders in exchange for Extremis works to save Potts goes after the President summons his remaining Iron Man , to provide air support . Rhodes and takes him to safety , while Stark has survived the Extremis confronts Killian Man , whose Extremis orders J.A.R.V.I.S Man , while the Vice President are arrested . With Stark\ ' Extremis promises to scale back his life as Iron Man Man.\n\nMinions into a volcano , getting their caveman leader eaten by a cave bear , crushing a Pharaoh Dracula , the Minions are driven into isolation and start a new life in a massive cave . After many years , the Minions , one fearless Minion , a musically inclined , one-eyed Minion , a young and inexperienced but enthusiastic Minion York ; a convention for villains and supervillains in Orlando family and impress them with their accidental villainy . At the convention , they see Scarlet Overkill . They phone the rest of the Minions State Crown of England , supplies them with inventions to aid in the heist , but they are nearly caught when they break into the Tower , which leads to a chase that ends with Bob in the Stone Bob confronts the Minions abdicates the throne in her favor . Undeterred because she feels betrayed , Scarlet before her coronation , but they escape with the intention to apologize to Scarlet.\n\nAfter Abbey and Bob , who orders their execution . Dozens of villains chase the three of them during a thunderstorm ; Stuart are caught , while Kevin on a television , promising that she will kill Stuart if Kevin sneaks into Scarlet\ accidentally triggers a machine Herb , rescuing his friends and battling Scarlet . Scarlet swallows a massive missile she fires at them . Scarlet attempt to escape with her rocket-dress , but Kevin stare at the explosion in sadness but Kevin II with a tiny crown for his teddy bear , Stuart with a knighthood . Scarlet , who turn out to have also survived the explosion , steal the crown once more only to be frozen in place by a young Gru `` Bucky is dispatched from a Hydra to intercept an automobile carrying a case of super-soldier serum . In the present day , approximately one year after Ultron\ at the hands of the Avengers N Steve Rogers Romanoff Wilson Maximoff Rumlow . Rumlow . Maximoff humanitarian workers.\n\nU.S . Secretary Thaddeus Ross Nations ) is preparing to pass the Sokovia Accords panel to oversee and control the team . The Avengers are divided : Tony Stark 's creation and Sokovia\ has more faith in his own judgment than that of a government . Meanwhile , Helmut Zemo ' old Hydra ' brainwashing . At a conference in Vienna T\'Chaka . Security , whom T\'Chaka\ , vows to kill . Informed by Sharon Carter ' whereabouts and the authorities\ ' intentions to kill him , Rogers childhood friend and war comrade\xe2\x80\x94himself . Rogers and Wilson to Bucharest and the authorities , but all four , including T\'Challa , are apprehended.\n\nImpersonating a psychiatrist sent to interview Barnes recites the words to make Barnes obey him . He questions Barnes , then sends him on a rampage to cover his own escape . Rogers and sneaks him away . When Barnes regains his senses , he explains that Zemo bomber and wanted the location of the Siberian Hydra , Rogers go rogue , and recruit Maximoff Barton Lang 's permission , Stark , T\'Challa Rhodes , and Peter Parker 's team intercepts Rogers\ Airport allows Rogers and Barnes to escape . The rest of Rogers\ prison , while Rhodes , and Romanoff was framed by Zemo to give him Rogers\ , Stark facility and strikes a truce with Rogers , unaware that they were secretly followed by T\'Challa , who then shows them footage that reveals that the automobile Barnes 's parents , whom Barnes kept this from him , Stark destroys Barnes\ disables Stark\ , leaving his shield behind . Satisfied that he has avenged his family\ 's deaths in Sokovia ' actions by successfully fracturing them , Zemo and taken to the authorities.\n\nIn the aftermath , Stark with exoskeletal leg braces that allow him to walk again , while Rogers . In a mid-credits scene , Barnes , chooses to return to cryogenic sleep until a cure for his brainwashing is found . In a post-credits scene , Parker 1961 , the `` Ark and the malevolent Decepticons 's Moon , and President John F. Kennedy as a cover for investigating the spacecraft . In 1969 , the crew of Apollo the present , the Autobots States military in preventing major conflicts around the globe . During a mission to Chernobyl Prime '' , discovering that it had survived its journey from Cybertron and his master Shockwave scientist , who manages to escape . After learning of the top-secret mission to the Moon travel there to explore the `` Ark Prime\xe2\x80\x94Optimus\ five Pillars Bridge , Optimus of Leadership Prime.\n\nMeanwhile Witwicky or find a job . He also becomes envious of the close relationship between his new girlfriend , Carly Spencer Gould is provided information by his eccentric co-worker Jerry Wang '' , before Jerry Laserbeak contacts the now independently wealthy Sector Seymour Simmons are murdering people connected to the American '' . They locate two surviving cosmonauts , who reveal satellite photos of hundreds of Pillars . Sam raided the `` Ark 11 mission to the moon and intentionally left Sentinel to find , as Sentinel and the Decepticons fight off three pursuing Decepticons : the Dreads to their base for protection , but Sentinel Ironhide to ensure Cybertron\ to transport hundreds of concealed Decepticons from the Moon . Carly , who is revealed to be in service of the Decepticons to avoid war , but as their ship leaves Earth , seemingly killing the Autobots and Sentinel as their agents place Pillars plan to transport their homeworld Cybertron System 's resources to rebuild their world . Sam Chief Robert Epps to save Carly forces before the Autobots , along with several ex-Rangers and Navy SEALs and kill Laserbeak , Starscream , and Shockwave using Shockwave\ Pillar Bridge Wheeljack and Brains warship and sabotage it . Sam as he reactivates the Control Pillar into the Pillar and Ratchet Pillar and causing the partially transported Cybertron and Sentinel convinces Megatron as leader of the Decepticons severs Optimus\ , having listened to Carly . Megatron instead attacks Megatron pleads for his life , but Optimus defeated , Carly are reunited and the Autobots gone for good , Earth , lighthouse keeper Thomas Curry , the princess of the underwater nation of Atlantis , who is born with the power to communicate with marine lifeforms . Atlanna , entrusting to her advisor , Nuidis Vulko . Under Vulko\ becomes a skilled warrior but rejects Atlantis was executed for having a half-breed son.\n\nIn the present , one year after Steppenwolf\ N Arthur nuclear submarine . Their leader , Jesse Kane , vows revenge . David at the behest of Orm 's younger half-brother and Atlantis\ of Xebel 's cause , but his daughter Mera , refuses to aid them and journeys to the surface to ask Arthur from a tsunami sent by Orm reluctantly accompanies Mera , who urges Arthur of Atlan ' first ruler , in order to reclaim his rightful place as king . They are ambushed by Orm\ and Vulko is captured.\n\nArthur is chained and presented before Orm and the surface for Atlanna\ an opportunity to leave forever , but Arthur before Mera and Mera desert where the trident was forged and unlock a holographic message that leads them to Sicily , where they retrieve the trident\ 's coordinates . Meanwhile , Orm with a prototype Atlantean , imprisons Vulko to pledge their allegiance to him and his campaign against the surface.\n\nAfter modifying Orm\ rechristens himself as Black Manta and Mera , injuring Arthur nurses Arthur\ and Mera . There , they are unexpectedly reunited with Atlanna , a mythical leviathan and keeper of the trident , and voices his determination to protect both Atlantis and his allies lead an army against the crustacean forces of the Kingdom with the intent of completing Orm\ declares himself Ocean Master , and Mera and the Trench 's followers renounce their obedience to him and embrace Arthur defeats Orm accepts his fate after discovering Arthur . Atlanna while Arthur by his side.\n\nIn a mid-credits scene , David Stephen Shin there in exchange for his help in his revenge on Arthur.\n\nTwo Hobbits and D\xc3\xa9agol discovers the One Ring in the river . Sm\xc3\xa9agol , and kills his friend for it . He retreats into the Misty Mountains twists his body and mind , until he becomes the creature Gollum.\n\nCenturies leads Aragorn , Gimli Th\xc3\xa9oden , where they reunite with Merry . Gandalf 's palant\xc3\xadr . Pippin . Gandalf will attack Gondor\ Tirith 's steward Denethor with him.\n\nGollum leads Frodo Baggins Gamgee Morgul via a \'secret way\ ' - unaware that Gollum . Sauron\ , forcing Faramir Tirith.\n\nGollum ' food , blaming Sam tells Sam and Gollum , where Gollum . Frodo , telling him that he must destroy the Ring for both their sakes . Gollum , but falls down a chasm . Frodo discovers , paralyses and binds him . However , Sam hides as Orcs with them . Sam into the Tower Ungol so they can continue their journey.\n\nAragorn learns from Elrond is dying , having refused to leave Middle Earth . Elrond And\xc3\xbaril 's sword Narsil Men . Joined by Legolas , Aragorn of the Dead of the Dead put on them . Faramir ; believing his son to be dead , Denethor is left to defend the city against the Orc . As Gothmog\ attempts to kill himself and Faramir alerts Gandalf , but a burning Denethor Tirith and his nephew , \xc3\x89omer . During the ensuing battle , they are overwhelmed by the Oliphaunt-riding Haradrim of Angmar . Though Th\xc3\xa9oden\ destroys the Witch-King with Merry\ dies of his wounds . Aragorn of the Dead and win the battle ; Aragorn decides to lead his army upon the Black Gate and Sam Doom.\n\nAragorn\ 's forces and empties Mordor and Sam attacks them just as they reach Mount Doom succumbs to the Ring attacks Frodo . Frodo , who is holding the Ring and killing Gollum and Sam is destroyed and Mordor flies in with eagles to rescue the Hobbits Tirith members . Aragorn of Gondor as his queen . The Hobbits , where Sam Cotton few years later , Frodo Earth Lands with his uncle Bilbo , and the Elves . He leaves Sam Book , which details their adventures . Sam , where he embraces Rosie , MI6 Bond Moneypenny , who has stolen a hard drive containing details of undercover agents . As Bond fight atop a moving train , M to shoot Patrice inadvertently hits Bond escapes with the hard drive.\n\nThree months later , M Mallory Intelligence Committee Kingdom officer , to retire . MI6\ receives a taunting computer message moments before the MI6 , who used his presumed death to retire , learns of the attack and returns to London approves his return to the field , ordering him to identify Patrice\ . He meets Q 's new quartermaster , who gives him a radio beacon and a Walther PPK , Bond into a skyscraper but is unable to prevent him from killing a target . The two fight , but Patrice can learn his employer\ 's identity . Bond intended to cash in for the assassination , which leads him to a casino in Macau is approached by S\xc3\xa9v\xc3\xa9rine 's accomplice , and asks to meet her employer . She warns him that he is about to be killed by her bodyguards , but promises to help Bond on her yacht , the Chimera where they are taken prisoner by the crew and delivered to S\xc3\xa9v\xc3\xa9rine\ Silva , once an MI6 . Silva , but Bond for rendition to Britain.\n\nAt MI6\ attempts to decrypt Silva\ servers , which allows Silva deduces that Silva , whom he resents for disavowing and betraying him to the Chinese government . Bond Underground 's handling of the stolen hard drive , repels Silva\ by car.\n\nInstructing Q Tanner to follow , Bond to Skyfall family estate in the Scottish Highlands 's gamekeeper Kincade 's men arrive , Bond , and Kincade is wounded . Silva himself arrives by helicopter with more men and heavy weapons , so Bond and Kincade escapes down the same tunnel and heads toward the chapel.\n\nSilva survives the destruction of the house and follows Kincade to the chapel . He forces his gun into M\ by throwing a knife into his back , but M 's arms . Following M\ formally introduces herself to Bond , who Bond Earth . In the present day , geologist Darcy Tyril . Industries , which uses it to build man-made Transformer of Chicago government to terminate all human-Autobot joint programs . Although the public believes the Autobots black ops division known as Cemetery Wind Attinger , a Cybertronian bounty hunter working for the Creators , promising to give Attinger if his division manages to capture Optimus Prime Wind in Mexico City kills him when he refuses to give up the whereabouts of Optimus Prime.\n\nOptimus City Yeager inventor , and brings him back to his farm . While his teenage daughter Tessa Flannery over to the authorities after realizing what he really is , Cade , hoping to understand his technology and unexpectedly revives him . Still skeptical of Optimus calls Cemetery Wind and Tessa\ rally car driver Shane Dyson Wind , Lucas 's grenades . Escaping into the desert , they take refuge in an abandoned gas station . Later scans a passing truck and turns into a Western Star Custom \xe2\x80\x93 Bumblebee , Drift \xe2\x80\x93 Wind drone which he stole during the home invasion , Cade 's involvement in the attacks on the Autobots vows to personally kill Attinger 's headquarters in Chicago discovers the remains of Autobots are being melted down to make the drones . Joshua Joyce , is in league with Attinger . He has captured Brains 's head to create the drones and prototype Transformer soldiers Galvatron . In a fit of rage , the Autobots regains his original form by scanning a passing car , where they rescue Brains and destroy the laboratory , but they soon leave after Joshua forces Joshua and Stinger . During the battle , Galvatron\ then arrives and abducts Optimus and Stinger is inadvertently captured alongside Optimus and Shane 's large prison spacecraft hovers over Chicago , Cade , and the Autobots and Tessa called the Dinobots leaves Earth reveal to Cade that `` Galvatron , who gave K.S.I drones so he could transfer his consciousness into the Galvatron 's more , Galvatron and the K.S.I in Hong Kong . has brought it there to use it in the remote Mongolian . Cade of Megatron\ with help from Darcy Yueming discovers Optimus\ , and returns to Earth to retrieve them . Optimus to no longer help the humans because of how they revived Megatron explains to Optimus why he shouldn\'t lose faith in them . At the K.S.I and Attinger , Galvatron . drones , and a battle follows in Hong Kong\ 's group , the Autobots Wind , and his drones . During the fight , Optimus , who become essential to the Autobots\ kills Stinger.\n\nLockdown and the Dinobots fights Lockdown kills Attinger as a threat ) to save Cade to pin Optimus , Bumblebee , and Shane , with Cade and Shane , who kills Lockdown by cutting him in half before using one of his grenades to finish off the remaining drones . Galvatron 's ship leaves Earth tells the Autobots offering to help the Yeagers build a new home ) and lets the Dinobots to hide it away , sending a message to the Creators that he is coming for them.\n\nEight years after the death of District Attorney Harvey Dent has disappeared and organized crime has been eradicated in Gotham City Act James Gordon 's murderous rampage and allowed blame for his crimes to fall on Batman has become a recluse , and Wayne Enterprises discontinued his fusion reactor project when he learned that it could be weaponized . Cat Kyle 's fingerprints from his home and tries to sell the fingerprints to Wayne\ Daggett and the police arrive and pursue Daggett\ flees . The men capture Gordon , a mysterious masked figure and former member of the League , who has set up his base in the sewers . Gordon Blake , a fellow orphan , confronts Bruce attacks the Gotham Stock Exchange 's fingerprints in a series of transactions that leaves Wayne 's butler , Alfred Pennyworth Dawes before she died , and resigns in an attempt to save Bruce . Wayne Enterprises CEO Miranda Tate.\n\nKyle to Bane 's trap . Bane 's al Ghul\ , and then steals Batman\ Enterprises fights Batman the story of Ra\ 's child , who was born and raised in the prison before finally escaping \xe2\x80\x94 the only prisoner to have done so.\n\nBane lures Gotham\ Anthony Garcia reads Gordon\ Penitentiary escapes from the prison and returns to Gotham frees the trapped police and they clash with Bane\ overpowers Bane intervenes and stabs Batman al Ghul 's al Ghul\ blocks her signal . Talia prepares to kill Batman arrives and kills Bane and Kyle , hoping to bring the bomb back to the reactor chamber where it can be stabilized . Talia\ uses the Batplane reveals his identity to Gordon.\n\nIn the aftermath , Batman presumed dead as well , Wayne Manor . Gordon Signal Fox had fixed the previously malfunctioning auto-pilot on the Bat , Alfred is alive , and in a relationship with Kyle resigns from the police force and a parcel left to him in Wayne\ ) leads him to find the Batcave.\n\n17-year-old Andy , Buzz Lightyear , Bullseye , Slinky , Mr. . Potato Head , and the army men . He intends to take Woody with him and puts the other toys in a trash bag to be stored in the attic , except for the army men , who leave . Andy\ 's old Barbie Daycare meant to keep them before Andy\ ' Bear '' ) and the other toys at Sunnyside , Andy\ never runs out of children to play with , and Barbie . Woody attempts to return home , but is found by Sunnyside , who brings him home and plays with him and her other toys , which are well-treated . Bonnie\ explains that he , Lotso Baby , but were lost during a family trip . They made it home , where Lotso 's personality changed ; he lied to Big Baby had replaced all of them . When they found Sunnyside took over it , turning it into a toy prison , and Chuckles took him home for repair.\n\nAt Sunnyside 's toys are horrified at the toddlers\ ' rough play . Buzz to move the toys to the older children\ 's room , but Lotso and restores him to original factory setting , erasing his memory . Mrs Head 's room , sees Andy was telling the truth and try to leave . Andy\ 's henchmen who rely on `` new recruits '' to save themselves from the preschoolers\ ' abuse.\n\nWoody returns to Sunnyside Telephone 's toys accidentally reset Buzz promptly allies himself with Woody . The toys reach a dumpster , but are cornered by Lotso\ reveals Lotso\ Baby into the dumpster . As the toys try to leave , Lotso\ drags Woody , Ken Baby falling television lands on Buzz help Lotso to abandon them and escape . The toys resign themselves to their fate and prepare to die , but are rescued by the Aliens is found by a garbage truck driver , who ties him to his truck\ 's radiator grille and drives away . Woody and the other toys 's house.\n\nWoody leaves a note for Andy . To Andy\ is at the bottom of the donation box and Bonnie passes Woody , and they play together before he leaves . Woody and the other toys witness Andy\ the credits scene , Barbie , and Big Baby and maintain contact with the other toys through letters . After parachuting in , the army men are welcomed to Sunnyside.\n\nThe Turner Swann Cutler Beckett India Trading Company James Norrington Jack Sparrow has resigned and disappeared after losing the Navy\ Dauntless . Meanwhile , Jack 's father , Bootstrap Bill Turner Pearl is now a crewman on the Flying Dutchman Jones previously bartered a deal with Jones from the depths ; now Jack ' crew or be dragged to Davy Jones\ by the Kraken , meanwhile , promises to free Elizabeth brings him Jack\ and the crew on an island and frees them from cannibals . Shortly after , Governor Swann from jail , but he is then captured . Elizabeth to find the compass . Disguised as a cabin boy aboard a Scottish merchant vessel , she makes her way to Tortuga where she later finds Jack . After escaping the cannibals , Jack Dalma ' weakness is his heart , which is locked within the Dead Man\ . Jack , Will to find the key to the chest in return for Jack\ tricks Will . Jones from their bargain in exchange for one hundred souls . Will and learns that Jones 's Dice to try and win the key , but they lose . Despite this , Will was on . Jones after him , sinking the ship , but Will , Jack and Norrington 's use of Jack\ Cruces , Will , who all want the heart for their respective goals : Jack ; Will wants to regain his life as a Navy secretly steals the heart and runs off , pretending to lure away the Dutchman\ attacks the Pearl , which kills most of the crew and destroys all but one of the Pearl\ , who briefly flees the battle , returns and wounds the Kraken , realizing the Kraken , tricks him and chains him to the mast so that the crew can escape . The Kraken and the Pearl Jones\ . Jones Royal gives Beckett of Marque , allowing him back into the navy as well as allowing Beckett Jones 's crew take shelter with Tia Dalma . Tia Dalma Barbossa.\n\nIn scientist Galen Erso when Imperial Krennic Star 's wife , Lyra , but she is shot dead by Krennic\ Troopers , escapes and is rescued by rebel extremist Saw Gerrera.\n\nFifteen Rook , taking a holographic message recorded by Galen . After learning about the Death Star of Kafrene Alliance Andor from an Imperial transport at Wobani leader Mon Mothma so the Alliance Star is covertly ordered to kill Galen droid K-2SO , where the Empire Star and his partisans engage in a guerrilla battle against one convoy transporting kyber \xc3\x8emwe Malbus makes contact with Gerrera captive . Gerrera shows her the message , in which Galen Star data bank on the planet Scarif.\n\nOn Star , Krennic 's capital . Jyn and flee the moon , but Gerrera Moff Willhuff Tarkin before using Rook\ leads the group to Galen\ research facility on the storm-covered planet Eadu . Jyn bombers attack the facility . Galen cargo shuttle . Following the attack , Krennic Vader to answer for the attack on Eadu seeks his support for an audience with the Emperor instead orders him to ensure no further breaches occur.\n\nJyn proposes a plan to steal the Death Star fleet , but fails to gain the Alliance Council\ Star has become impossible . Frustrated at their inaction , Jyn\ on the stolen Imperial dubs `` Rogue One and Cassian while the other rebels attack the resident Imperial fleet learns of the raid from intercepted Imperial and Cassian fleet , and Malbus is killed by a thermal detonator explosion after informing the Rebel and Cassian , who is eventually shot and wounded by Cassian transmits the schematics to the Rebel Star , where Tarkin , Cassian , and anyone still alive on the surface.\n\nThe Rebel 's flagship . Vader command ship and attempts to regain the schematics , but a small starship , the Tantive IV Leia , thus leading to the beginning of the original film.\n\nAfter a failed attempt to rescue his first mate , Joshamee Gibbs , Captain Jack Sparrow George II to guide an expedition to the Fountain before King Ferdinand can locate it . Jack\ Hector Barbossa after losing his leg and ship , the Black Pearl Teague about the Fountain\ learns someone is impersonating him to recruit a crew to find the Fountain , Jack\ , who practices voodoo magic and wields the mythical `` Sword '' that controls his ship , the Queen Anne\ . While Jack 's ship , Gibbs 's map showing the Fountain\ to take him along.\n\nMeanwhile , after a failed mutiny aboard the Queen Anne\ , Jack . Blackbeard 's power to circumvent his predestined fatal encounter with a `` one-legged man '' , who happened to be Barbossa must find two silver chalices aboard Juan Ponce 's missing flagship , the Santiago 's water must simultaneously be drunk by two people from the chalices . Drinking from one chalice containing a mermaid\ 's tear will extend life ; the second person dies , their remaining years of life transferred to the other drinker . Jack Pearl 's collection of other shrunken ships in bottles.\n\nThe Queen Anne\ heads for Whitecap Bay , she summons other mermaids to attack the crew before Jack is caught , but Philip Swift de Le\xc3\xb3n\ and Blackbeard into retrieving both chalices . Jack there . Both guess that the Spanish have taken the chalices , after they are nowhere to be found on the vessel.\n\nJack and Barbossa for attacking the Black Pearl and Barbossa , reciprocating Philip\ collects it , leaving her to die of dehydration while Philip returns with the chalices and bargains with Blackbeard 's safety , Jack\ ' release . In return , Jack the chalices and lead him to the Fountain agrees , and Gibbs , Blackbeard\ and his men and they battle while Barbossa fight . The Spanish suddenly arrive , intending to destroy the Fountain . They crush the chalices and throw them in the swamp . When Barbossa with a poisoned sword , Angelica notices Angelica obtains Blackbeard\ Anne\ and her crew . Despite resistance from Blackbeard\ of Youth is mortally wounded , but he returns to free Syrena retrieve the missing chalices and gives them to him , telling him not to waste her tear . Syrena . She says she can save him if he asks her to . When he asks for her forgiveness , she kisses him and takes him underwater.\n\nWith Blackbeard both nearing death , Jack to drink from the chalice containing the tear . Instead , Blackbeard agrees and drinks from the second chalice . Jack , but reveals that he made a mistake about which chalice contained the tear . Neither of the two are happy , and they both believe Jack 's wounds are healed as the Fountain 's body , killing him.\n\nEventually , Jack admit their love for each other , yet he distrusts her intentions ( aware that she may try to avenge her father ) and strands her on a cay . Now wielding Blackbeard\ captains the Queen Anne\ and returns to piracy . Jack , who had used the compass to locate the Revenge Pearl Pearl crafted by Blackbeard , who then smiles.\n\nFormer villain Gru League ) . He and his partner/new wife Lucy Bratt manages to stop Bratt Diamond , Gru are fired from the AVL Da Vinci 's former director , Silas Ramsbottom.\n\nWhen Gru return home , Gru reluctantly tell their kids , Margo , and Agnes 's Minions leave Gru , Stuart staying due to not knowing . Meanwhile , Lucy arrives at the Gru discovers that he has a twin brother named Dru , who longs to meet him . Shocked to learn he has a twin , Gru , and they are surprised at his immense wealth , the size of the mansion , which Fritz manages to steal the diamond again , intending to use it to power a giant robot and destroy Hollywood was dismissed by their father as a disgrace , he asks his brother to teach him how to be a villain . When Gru takes him on a joyride around Freedonia tries to balance her new tasks as a mom , which she exhibits after turning away a young boy named Niko in the midst of a traditional cheese festival , while Edith stumble into a local tavern and learn from the bartender about a mythical unicorn which lurks in a nearby forest . Gru and Edith ' , only to find a one-horned goat whom Agnes adopts and dubs `` Lucky ' longing for Gru to steal the diamond , with Gru , which he hopes will convince Da Vinci . Despite several setbacks , they manage to retrieve the diamond and are rescued by Lucy 's true motives , Dru insults him and decides to leave Freedonia , disguised as Lucy and Dru his robot powered by the diamond , Bratt , intending to send it into space with the use of superpowered gum . Lucy and Dru 's robot with the weapons of their father\ 's car . Gru manages to destroy the robot\ 's core from the inside when Bratt . When Gru in a dance fight , using it as a distraction to grab his weaponized keytar , and defeats him . Having rendezvoused with Gru manage to destroy the gum already covering the city , and Gru reunite.\n\nSoon afterward , Gru are reinstated in the AVL 's home . Lucy , along with most of the Minions 's airship , with Gru\ '' graffiti . Gru decide to give them a five-minute head-start before engaging pursuit.\n\nIndustrialist John Hammond , have created a theme park featuring cloned dinosaurs and prehistoric plants , called Jurassic Park Nublar , the park\ 's investors , represented by lawyer Donald Gennaro invites mathematician and chaos theorist Ian Malcolm invites paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant Ellie Sattler , in addition to two more with a herd of Parasaurolophus.\n\nAt scoffs at the idea , saying it will inevitably break down . The group witnesses the hatching of a baby Velociraptor gives a harsh warning about the implications of genetic engineering.\n\nThe group is joined by Hammond\ and Lex oversees the tour from the park\ 's control room . The tour does not go as planned . Most of the dinosaurs fail to appear and the group encounters a sick Triceratops Nublar stays behind with the park\ 's veterinarian to study the Triceratops.\n\nJurassic Park\ Nedry , a man working for Hammond\ deactivates the park\ 's security system to gain access to the embryo storage room and puts the stolen embryos inside a canister disguised as a shaving cream bottle . The power goes out , stalling the tour vehicles . Most of the park\ 's electric fences are deactivated , allowing the Tyrannosaurus and Hammond\ injures Malcolm . While taking the embryos to the island\ 's dock , Nedry Wrangler helps the park\ 's game warden , Robert Muldoon before the Tyrannosaurus , Tim take shelter in a treetop . They later discover broken dinosaur egg shells . Grant African right.\n\nUnable to decipher Nedry\ and the park\ 's chief engineer Ray Arnold heads to a maintenance shed to complete the rebooting process . When Arnold and Muldoon distracts the raptors , while Sattler 's severed arm . Muldoon and narrowly escaping the Tyrannosaurus stampede , Grant , and Lex heads out to look for Sattler ( who was injured while scaling one of the fences ) and Lex and Sattler restores full power from the control room , allowing them to call Hammond , Tim , and Sattler suddenly appears and kills the raptors . Hammond , and the survivors board a helicopter to leave the island.\n\nDory , a regal blue tang , gets separated from her parents as a child . As she grows up , Dory , she joins Marlin \xe2\x80\x93 \xe2\x80\x93 is living with Marlin on their reef . One day , Dory of Morro Bay across the ocean , thanks to Nemo accompany Dory , their sea turtle friend , they ride the California Current . Upon arrival , they explore a shipwreck full of spilt cargo , where Dory squid , who immediately pursues them and almost devours Nemo berates Dory travels to the surface to seek help and is captured by staff members from the trio\ 's nearby destination , the Marine Life Institute ( who is now a `` septopus '' , due to apparently having had one of his eight tentacles ripped off by a child . ) Dory\ . Due wants to live in the aquarium instead of being released back into the ocean , so he agrees to help Dory encounters her childhood friend Destiny through pipes , and Bailey subsequently has flashbacks of life with her parents , and struggles to recall details . She finally remembers how she was separated from her parents : she overheard her mother crying one night , left to retrieve a shell to cheer her up , and was pulled away by an undertow current.\n\nMarlin and Nemo . With the help of two lazy , British-accented California and Rudder , they manage to get into the institute and find her in the pipe system . Other blue tangs tell them that Dory\ believing that they have died . Hank from the tank , accidentally leaving Marlin behind . He is then apprehended by one of the employees and unintentionally drops Dory finds an empty brain coral with multiple shell trails leading to it . As she turns to leave , she sees her parents Jenny in the distance . They tell her they spent years laying down the trails for her to follow in the hopes that she would eventually find them.\n\nMarlin , Nemo end up in the truck taking various aquatic creatures to Cleveland and Bailey rescue them . Once on board the truck , Dory to return to the sea with her , and together , they hijack the truck and drive it over busy highways , creating havoc , before crashing it into the sea , freeing all the fish . Dory and Nemo.\n\nIn one year after floating across the Pacific Ocean Life Institute and Rudder\ , due to having finally gotten on their rock without them knowing ( as they had spent the entire film shooing him away whenever he tried to get on their rock ) pops up and giggles goofily , as the iris closes in on him , revealing the film\ 's end.\n\nThe Trade Federation Republic in preparation for a full-scale invasion . The Republic\ Chancellor Valorum Master Qui-Gon Jinn Kenobi Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray Sidious Lord Federation\ to kill the Jedi escape and flee to Naboo saves the life of a clumsy Gungan Jar Binks , Jar Jar to Otoh Gunga . The Jedi leader , Boss Nass manage to obtain Jar Jar\ , the capital city of Naboo 's queen , Padm\xc3\xa9 Amidala Starship capital planet of Coruscant.\n\nAmidala\ blockade and the hyperdrive is caught in the crossfire , rendering it useless . They land for repairs on the desert planet of Tatooine , Jar Jar , and Padm\xc3\xa9\xe2\x80\x94disguised as one of her handmaidens\xe2\x80\x94visit a settlement of Mos Espa , and his nine-year-old slave , Anakin Skywalker . Qui-Gon within Anakin One 's currency being worthless on Tatooine wagers both the parts and Anakin\ in a podrace . Anakin , leaving behind his mother , Shmi route to their starship , Qui-Gon encounters Darth Maul Sidious\ . A quickly disengages and escapes onboard the starship.\n\nQui-Gon and Obi-Wan escort Amidala so that she can plead her people\ 's case to Chancellor Valorum Senate asks the Jedi Council as a Jedi refuses , concerned that Anakin . Undaunted , Qui-Gon vows to take up Anakin 's senator Palpatine to call for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Valorum grows frustrated with the corruption in the Senate . Qui-Gon are ordered by the Jedi Council , whom they had believed to be extinct.\n\nOn Naboo reveals herself to the Gungans as Queen Amidala Federation Jar leads the search for Viceroy Gunray . During a battle in the starship hangar , Qui-Gon to wait in the cockpit of a vacant starfighter . Anakin droid control ship in space . Anakin and Obi-Wan Maul he lays dying , Qui-Gon requests that Obi-Wan . Palpatine is arrested . Yoda promotes Obi-Wan Knight as Obi-Wan\ presents a gift of thanks to the Gungans during a celebratory parade.\n\nTroubled by a strange recurring dream and mourning the loss of her father , 19-year-old Alice Kingsleigh Ascot\ Ascot\ , and the stifling expectations of the society in which she lives . Unsure of how to proceed , she pursues a rabbit wearing a blue waistcoat and accidentally falls into a large rabbit hole under a tree . She emerges in a forest where she is greeted by the White Rabbit , the Dodo Flowers and Tweedledee is `` the right Alice Queen\ and restore the White Queen the Caterpillar and a group of playing-card soldiers led by the Knave . Alice and Tweedledee steals the Caterpillar\ leaves the others behind with one of the Bandersnatch\ and Tweedledee Queen\ bird.\n\nThe Knave Queen threatens her reign , and the soldiers and Bayard are ordered to find Alice Cat to the March Hare Hatter helps Alice , Alice , but Alice . At the Red Queen\ Queen 's true identity and therefore welcomes her as a guest . Alice , is locked inside the den of the Bandersnatch attempts to seduce Alice Queen be beheaded . Alice by returning her eye . She then escapes on the back of the grateful Bandersnatch Queen Cat calls for rebellion against the Red Queen bird , but the resistance flees to the White Queen\ advises Alice just before completing his transformation into a pupa.\n\nOn the appointed day , the White Queen Queen and the Jabberwocky fights the Jabberwocky 's neck and beheads it . During this fight , a catapult stone kills the Jubjub Queen Queen into exile together . The Knave Queen protects the Red Queen performs a celebration dance called Futterwacken Queen a vial of the Jabberwocky\ in England impresses Lord Ascot Kong prepares to set off on a trading ship . A light-blue butterfly with dark vein markings lands on her shoulder , and Alice a world populated by anthropomorphic mammals , rabbit Judy Hopps fulfills her childhood dream of becoming a police officer in urban Zootopia is delegated to parking duty by Chief Bogo Wilde abandons parking duty to arrest Duke Weaselton holicithias . Bogo Otterton 's office pleading for someone to find her husband Emmitt volunteers and Assistant Mayor Dawn Bellwether has no choice but to let Judy Otterton into assisting her by covertly recording his confession to tax evasion , having ascertained from the \'last-sighting\ that Nick to a limousine owned by crime boss Mr. Big went `` savage '' \xe2\x80\x94reverted to a feral state\xe2\x80\x94and attacked his chauffeur Manchas mentions Otterton himself turns savage and chases the pair . Judy by trapping Manchas for help , but when they arrive , Manchas demands that Judy reminds Bogo still has ten hours to solve the case.\n\nAt City Hall allows Judy access to the city\ 's traffic cameras . They discover Manchas surmises are the `` night howlers '' . They locate the missing predators\xe2\x80\x94all gone savage\xe2\x80\x94imprisoned at Cliffside Asylum Leodore Lionheart and the asylum staff are arrested for false imprisonment and Bellwether and asks him to join the ZPD . Wracked with guilt for the consequences of her words , Judy home , Judy stole , and they contain a neurotoxin that has severe psychotropic effects on mammals , causing them to go savage . After returning to Zootopia , the pair confront Weaselton Big . They find Doug obtain the serum as evidence , but before they can reach the ZPD confronts them in the Natural History Museum traps Judy in an exhibition after Nick . She shoots a serum pellet at Nick and summons the ZPD and Nick 's gun with blueberries . Enraged threatens to frame the pair for the attacks before discovering that Judy attempts to escape , only to find herself and her crooked group of cops surrounded by Chief Bogo publicly denies knowledge of Bellwether\ rejoins the ZPD graduates from the Zootopia Police Academy 's partner.\n\nApproaching his 111th birthday , [ a ] the Hobbit Bilbo Baggins . Long 's involvement , the Dwarf brought an era of prosperity for his kin under the Lonely Mountain . Destroying the nearby town of Dale drove the Dwarves out of their mountain and took their hoard of gold . Thr\xc3\xb3r\ , sees King Thranduil 's everlasting hatred of Elves.\n\nIn , 50-year-old Bilbo the Grey and his company of Dwarves : Balin , F\xc3\xadli , Dori , Ori , Gl\xc3\xb3in , Bofur . Gandalf\ as the company\ 's `` burglar '' to aid them in their quest to enter the Lonely Mountain is unwilling to accept at first , but has a change of heart after the company leaves without him the next day . Travelling onward , the company is captured by three Trolls stalls the Trolls exposes the trolls to sunlight , turning them to stone . The company locates the Trolls\ blades . Thorin each take an Elf-made blade , Orcrist , respectively ; Gandalf dagger , which he gives to Bilbo.\n\nThe the Brown and the company , and recounts an encounter at Dol Guldur , a sorcerer who has been corrupting Greenwood , Gandalf . There , Lord Elrond Mountain 's Day later approaches the White Council \xe2\x80\x94 , Galadriel the White blade , a weapon of the Witch-king , which Radagast Guldur is linked to an eventual return of Sauron ' quest , requesting that Gandalf secretly reveals to Galadriel he had anticipated this and had the Dwarves move forward without him.\n\nThe company journeys into the Misty Mountains Giants . They take refuge in a cave and are captured by Goblins Goblin becomes separated from the Dwarves and falls into a crevice where he encounters Gollum finds himself confronted by Gollum will be shown the way out if he wins or eaten by Gollum eventually wins by asking Gollum realizes that Bilbo discovers that the ring grants him invisibility , but when he has a chance to kill Gollum spares his life out of pity and escapes while Gollum , the Great Goblin , an Orc and lost his forearm to Thorin kingdom of Moria 's head . Gandalf in an escape , killing the Great Goblin exits the mountain and rejoins the company , keeping his newly obtained ring secret . The company is ambushed by Azog , who overpowers and severely injures him with his Warg saves Thorin just as the company is rescued by eagles . They escape to the safety of the Carrock revives Thorin after being saved by him . They see the Lonely Mountain is awoken by a thrush knocking a snail against a stone.\n\nA gang of criminals rob a Gotham City mob remains , who escapes with the money . Batman Attorney Harvey Dent Jim Gordon City Wayne as Gotham\ and lead a normal life with Rachel Dawes \xe2\x80\x93 are dating.\n\nMob bosses Sal Maroni , and the Chechen , who has taken their funds for safekeeping and fled to Hong Kong interrupts the meeting to warn them that Batman by Gambol finds and kills Gambol up on his offer . Batman in Hong Kong to testify , allowing Dent threatens to keep killing people unless Batman Commissioner Gillian B. Loeb also tries to kill Mayor Anthony Garcia sacrifices himself to stop the assassination . Dent henchmen and threatens him with a seemingly deadly game of heads-or-tails using Dent\ learns that Rachel 's next target.\n\nBruce decides to reveal his secret identity to prevent more deaths . Before he can , however , Dent . Dent appears and attacks the convoy . Batman 's rescue and Gordon , securing a promotion to Commissioner and Dent 's payroll ; Gordon interrogates the Joker must choose one to save . Batman , while Gordon . Batman sent him to Dent\ and disfiguring half of Dent\ escapes with Lau 's funds . The Joker and the Chechen.\n\nColeman Reese Enterprises is Batman 's revelation to interfere with his plans , the Joker is killed within an hour . All hospitals are evacuated and Gordon . The Joker 's ward and hands him a gun , convincing him to seek revenge for Rachel\ then destroys the hospital and escapes with a busload of hostages . Dent goes on a killing spree , deciding the fates of people he holds responsible for Rachel\ eventually apprehends Gordon\ 's love for his family parallels his love for Rachel.\n\nAfter City rigs two evacuating ferries with explosives ; one containing civilians and the other containing prisoners . The passengers have been supplied with a trigger to the other boat\ 's explosives , and the Joker finds the Joker Fox apprehends the Joker into custody , he gloats that Gotham\ 's rampage becomes public knowledge.\n\nGordon and Batman perished and find Dent 's family . Dent , spares himself , and aims to kill Gordon\ 's negligence is responsible for Rachel\ , who was wearing body armor , tackles Dent persuades Gordon 's heroic image . As the police launch a manhunt for Batman destroys the Bat-signal watches as the sonar device self-destructs , and Alfred saying she plans to marry Dent flees from the police , taking Dent\ 's crimes.\n\nIn late 1981 , Albus Dumbledore McGonagall Hagrid School and Wizardry Potter . Ten years later , Harry . After inadvertently causing an accident during a family trip to the zoo , Harry escape to an island to avoid more letters , Hagrid against the Dursleys\ to Diagon Alley and a pet owl named Hedwig informs him of his past ; Harry\ and Lily Potter Curse Voldemort , the only survivor in the chaos , thus becomes well-known in the wizarding world as `` The Boy Who 's Cross , where he meets three other students : Ron Weasley Granger Malfoy Hall between four houses : Gryffindor , Ravenclaw . Although the Sorting Hat in Slytherin alongside Ron Hogwarts begins learning magic spells and discovers more about his past and parents . After recovering the Remembrall student Neville Longbottom is recruited for Gryffindor\ team as a Seeker , Ron discover a giant three-headed dog named Fluffy then insults Hermione and Ron is guarding the Philosopher\ , an object that can grant its owner immortality . Harry House Severus Snape to physical form . Hagrid will fall asleep if played music . Harry , and Hermione . They discover an already asleep Fluffy 's Snare , and a dangerous life-sized game of chess that almost kills Ron.\n\nAfter discovers that it was Defence Against Arts Quirrell was actually protecting Harry removes his turban and reveals a weak Voldemort , Harry attempts to bargain the stone from Harry refuses , causing Quirrell kills Quirrell 's spirit rises from Quirrell\ unconscious.\n\nHarry recovers in the school hospital with Dumbledore and Hermione also reveals how Harry : when Harry\ a love-based protection against Voldemort , Ron are rewarded with house points for their heroic performances , tying them for first place with Slytherin then awards ten points to Neville the House Cup returns home for the summer , happy to finally have a real home in Hogwarts.\n\nA from a secret laboratory in the Arctic Circle League ) , led by Silas Ramsbottom to track down the culprit and recover the mutagen . However , Gru , Edith . Longing to resume his criminal life , Dr. Nefario 's friend and assistant , leaves Gru reluctantly agrees to investigate the theft and works with undercover AVL Wilde.\n\nThe Shopping Mall immediately suspects the Mexican P\xc3\xa9rez Macho and Lucy 's restaurant at night but find no proof . Meanwhile , Agnes will fall in love with Lucy denies it , saying his relationship with Lucy as his prime suspect , Gru Eagle-san 's two-timing son , Antonio and invite everyone to his Cinco de Mayo renews his focus on Eduardo . The date goes awry , but Lucy from being humiliated by shooting Shannon home , Gru spend personal time together , and Gru arrest Eagle-san after finding an almost-empty jar of the mutagen in his shop , and the investigation is closed by Ramsbottom is reassigned to Australia her lipstick taser as a gift before leaving . A heartbroken Gru out on a date , instead takes the girls to the Cinco de Mayo and discovers a secret musical steps-activated elevator , where he finally finds proof that Eduardo Macho.\n\nOn , realizing that she has also fallen in love with Gru discovers that El Macho as a partner , has been abducting Gru\ serum to make them rabid and indestructible . El Macho into major cities in order to dominate the world . He offers Gru walks away.\n\nLucy later arrives at the party , but El Macho after Pollito Macho\ ID rejoins Gru Macho\ creates an antidote to the serum . Gru , and the girls use it as a weapon to return the Minions to their normal state . El Macho and Nefario 's lipstick taser and a fart gun.\n\nGru finds Lucy launches the rocket , sending it flying towards the same volcano where El Macho accepts Gru\ rejoins the AVL eventually get married , giving Margo and Agnes Lands , a pride of lions rule over the animal kingdom from Pride Rock Mufasa\ Sarabi\ ( whose name is Swahili the baboon ( with the colorful facial marking of a mandrill ) [ 5 ] who serves as the shaman and advisor . Mufasa the Pride Lands 's younger brother , Scar and Simba and his best friend Nala\xe2\x80\x94to is betrothed\xe2\x80\x94into exploring a forbidden elephants\ ' graveyard , where they are attacked by three spotted hyenas , Shenzi , and Ed . Mufasa , and rescues the cubs . Though upset with Simba forgives him and explains that the great kings of the past watch over them from the night sky , from which he will one day watch over Simba.\n\nScar into a gorge and having the hyenas drive a large herd of wildebeest into a stampede that will trample him . He informs Mufasa 's peril , knowing that king will rush to save his son . Mufasa but ends up hanging perilously from the gorge\ 's edge . Scar refuses to help Mufasa that the tragedy was Simba\ escapes . Scar and Simba Lands.\n\nSimba and Pumbaa ) . Now a young adult , Simba and Pumbaa . She and Simba Lands 's reign . Feeling guilty over his father\ 's death , Simba , who tells him that Mufasa\ . Simba in the night sky , who tells him he must take his rightful place as king . Realizing that he can no longer run from his past , Simba Lands.\n\nAided by his friends , Simba Rock , who had just struck Sarabi taunts Simba 's death and backs him to the edge of the rock , where he reveals to him that he murdered Mufasa , Simba to the ground and forces him to reveal the truth to the rest of the pride . Timon , Rafiki , and the lionesses fend off the hyenas while Scar at the top of Pride Rock begs for mercy and attempts to blame the hyenas for his actions ; Simba Lands manages to toss him from the top of the rock . Scar takes over the kingship as rain begins to fall.\n\nLater , with Pride Rock presents Simba 's newborn cub to the assembled animals , continuing the circle of life.\n\nMowgli is a `` man cub '' raised by the wolf Raksha , in an Indian jungle ever since he was brought to them as a infant by the black panther Bagheera trains Mowgli disapproves of him using human `` tricks '' , like building tools , instead of learning the ways of the pack.\n\nOne day , during the dry season , the jungle animals gather to drink the water that remains as part of a truce during a drought that enables the jungle\ 's wildlife to drink without fear of being eaten by their predators . The truce is disrupted when a fire-scarred Bengal Khan 's scent in the large crowd . Resentful at the end of the drought . After the drought ends , the wolves debate whether they should keep Mowgli decides to leave the jungle for the safety of his pack . Bagheera Khan , but Mowgli , Mowgli , who hypnotizes him . While under her influence , Mowgli Khan attempts to devour Mowgli . Mowgli was a himalayan brown bear named Baloo agrees to stay with Baloo has left the jungle , Shere Khan off to his death and threatens the pack to lure Mowgli and Baloo has not joined the humans as he had agreed , but Baloo finds a herd of Indian elephants led by Hathi and Bagheera realizes that he can not guarantee Mowgli\ Khan agrees to push Mowgli '' , who present him to their leader , a giant ape named King Louie Louie protection from Shere Khan distracts King Louie tries to sneak him out , but their plan is discovered . As King Louie through his temple , he informs Mowgli 's death . King Louie\ and Bagheera 's death , Mowgli Khan Khan has made himself the enemy of the jungle by causing the wildfire . Mowgli Khan , Bagheera Khan enough time to set a trap . He lures Shere Khan Khan then directs the elephants to divert the river and put out the fire . In the aftermath , Raksha decides to utilize his equipment and tricks for his own use , having found his true home and calling with his wolf family , Baloo order to control the oceans , Lord Cutler Beckett Royal Jones the Colours Lords to convene at Shipwreck Cove Court Jack Sparrow Lord Sea Jones Barbossa Turner Swann Dalma Pearl . Traveling to Singapore Sao Feng Lord China Sea . Beckett\ secretly promises to give Jack in return for the Pearl Bill Turner crew travels to the Locker . The crew encounters many dead souls , including Elizabeth\ Swann . Tia Dalma Calypso Jones Swann must always have a captain.\n\nReturning to the living world , the Pearl lying dead on the beach , having been killed by Jones . They are then attacked by Sao Feng 's men . Through a complex series of deals , Elizabeth , who believes she is the goddess Calypso Cove . Jack off the ship as part of the plan to seize control of the Dutchman Feng that the first Brethren Court in human form after she betrayed her lover , Davy Jones . Davy Jones 's ship , the Empress in the process . Feng his successor as Pirate Lord and the crew are locked in the brig of the Dutchman Bill Turner reveals that whoever kills Davy Jones forever . He reiterates that `` the Dutchman Norrington and her new crew from the Dutchman Bill.\n\nThe Black Pearl Cove attempts to persuade the Brethren Court . Davy Jones Dalma 's brig , revealing she is Calypso 's father Captain Teague of the Pirate Code that only an elected Pirate King casts his vote for Elizabeth Brethren Court 's fleets emerge for war . On a sandbank , Elizabeth , Barbossa , Jones parley , trading Will . Barbossa 's piece of eight , all of which are owned by the Pirate Lords . Barbossa , but when Will who betrayed her and made it possible for the first Court vanishes and summons an enormous maelstrom.\n\nThe Pearl battle in the maelstrom . Elizabeth are wed by Barbossa , Jones engage in a duel for control of Davy Jones\ stabs Will gives up his chance for immortality and instead helps Will , whose body falls into the maelstrom . Jack escape the Dutchman 's ship , the Endeavour , the Dutchman ; the crew has been freed from Jones\ . A goes down with his ship while his navy retreats . With Will bid farewell to each other on the beach of an abandoned island . Will , leaving Elizabeth Gibbs has stolen the Black Pearl planned ahead and stole Sao Feng\ alone to track down the mythical Fountain a post-credits scene , set ten years later , Elizabeth watch from a sea cliff as Will Brantford Hampshire Vreeke board game by his father , who found it on a beach . Uninterested , he sets the game aside . That night , it transforms into a video game cartridge which catches Alex\ drum beats . When he begins playing it , he disappears into the game.\n\nTwenty years later , four students at Brantford High School Gilpin `` Fridge for cheating , Bethany Walker Kaply discovers Alex\ decide to play . Although it has five playable characters , they are unable to select the first one , so they choose two others , and convince the girls to play as the remaining two . When Spencer '' , they are transported into the game.\n\nThey land in a jungle , in the forms of their game avatars . Spencer Smolder Bravestone is a diminutive zoologist named Franklin '' Finbar is an overweight male cartographer named Professor Sheldon Oberon is a female commando and martial arts expert named Ruby Roundhouse immediately loses one after being eaten by a hippo . Spencer Nigel Van Pelt 's Eye . Nigel Pelt '' to leave the game . Nigel Pelt 's animals ; Van Pelt , the missing fifth player , whose avatar is pilot Jefferson '' McDonough Parrish believes that he has been in the game for a few months and is distressed to learn that it is really twenty years . The newcomers vow to help him return home . They break into a transportation shed , commandeering a helicopter to fly to the jaguar statue and return the jewel , but Fridge sacrifices one of Fridge\ loses his last life when a mosquito bites him , but Bethany and transfers one of her lives to him.\n\nAt the statue , the players are surrounded by a pack of jaguars and Van Pelt\ and Martha Pelt and demands the jewel , but she purposely gets a snake to bite her , allowing her to respawn and to get the jewel to Spencer Pelt . They find the formerly-dilapidated Vreeke family gathering . An adult Alex out of gratitude for saving his life.\n\nSpencer and Fridge begins caring for others more than herself and plans a summer wilderness backpacking adventure , Martha become romantically involved and the four are now friends after their experiences in the game . When they hear Jumanji\ destroys it with a bowling ball to prevent anyone from playing it.\n\nThe Minister Rufus Scrimgeour remains strong despite Lord Voldemort Eaters and infiltrating the Ministry Potter Weasley Granger Dumbledore by hunting down and destroying Voldemort\ . Severus Snape of Harry\ Drive commandeers Lucius Malfoy\ 's and therefore being unable to kill him.\n\nThe Order escort Harry Potion Eaters who kill Mad-Eye Moody , injure George Weasley Hagrid , Harry being tortured by Voldemort arrives with Dumbledore\ 's Deluminator receives a copy of The Tales the Bard receives the first Golden match . Scrimgeour reveals that Harry of Gryffindor Eaters and replace him with Pius Thicknesse begins arresting and persecuting Muggle-born witches and wizards . Death Eaters Weasley Delacour\ Shacklebolt\ , Hermione disapparate to London Eaters 12 , Grimmauld Place . '' from the fake Horcrux Arcturus Black Black , the Blacks\ Fletcher and Dobby , who reveals that the locket is in the possession of Dolores Umbridge Polyjuice Potion and find the locket around Umbridge\ stuns Umbridge retrieves the locket . The trio escape their pursuers by apparating in the wilderness , but Ron , the trio take turns wearing it to dilute its power . Harry interrogating and killing the wand-maker Gregorovitch Wand is wearing the locket , he is overcome by negative feelings and argues with Harry . Hermione of Gryffindor and decides to go with Harry 's Hollow 's parents\ ' graves and the house where they were killed . They encounter Bathilda Bagshot lets them into her house before revealing herself as Nagini 's reanimated corpse . Hermione escape into the Forest , but Hermione 's wand whilst fighting Nagini 's vision as Gellert Grindelwald.\n\nHarry 's sword lies beneath the pond\ 's ice , which Harry , but Ron uses parseltongue to open the Horcrux eventually decides to destroy . Hermione reconcile , and the trio decide to visit Xenophilius Lovegood left Hermione explains to them that the symbol represents the Deathly Hallows . Hermione , after which the trio awkwardly attempt to leave but are stopped by Lovegood Lovegood Eaters in exchange for her . Harry , and Hermione 's house is destroyed.\n\nBack in the wilderness , the trio set up camp when Snatchers uses a curse to disguise Harry take them to Malfoy Manor Lestrange and Ron , Ollivander the goblin . Bellatrix for information on the Sword claims was in her vault at Gringott\ requests help , communicating with a broken mirror in his possession . Dobby and Ron , and a battle ensues that sees Harry Malfoy drops a chandelier onto Bellatrix . Bellatrix grabs everyone and disapparates . They arrive at Shell Cottage 's knife has fatally wounded Dobby insists that they bury Dobby breaks into Dumbledore\ Wand 's possession.\n\nThorin and his company are being pursued by Azog party following the events of the previous film . They are ushered along by Gandalf , a skin-changer who can take the form of the bear . That night , Azog Guldur , who commands him to marshal his forces for war , so Azog to his son Bolg escorts the company to the borders of Mirkwood discovers Black Speech , he warns the company to remain on the path and leaves to investigate the tombs of the Nazg\xc3\xbbl sets about freeing them with the help of his recently acquired invisibility ring . He subsequently drops the ring and first begins to understand its dark influence after he brutally kills a creature to retrieve it.\n\nThe remaining spiders are fended off by the Wood-elves led by Tauriel . They also capture the Dwarves and bring Thorin . Thorin of Erebor 's attack 60 years earlier , and is consequently imprisoned with the other Dwarves , having avoided capture , arranges an escape using empty wine barrels that are sent downstream . While being pursued by the Wood-elves , they are ambushed by Bolg party , and K\xc3\xadli shaft . They engage in a running three-way battle down the river , but ultimately the Dwarves are able to escape both groups of pursuers . Thranduil captive reveals an evil entity has returned and is amassing an army in the south , but Tauriel , and Legolas and Radagast , which they find to be empty.\n\nThe company are smuggled into Esgaroth , but are discovered raiding the town armory for new weapons . Thorin , and the people of Laketown is a descendant of the last ruler of Dale . K\xc3\xadli , \xc3\x93in , as the remaining company receive a grand farewell . Meanwhile , Gandalf Guldur leaves to warn Galadriel . Gandalf and is ambushed by Azog overpowers Gandalf and his remaining company reach the Lonely Mountain discovers the hidden entrance . He is sent in to retrieve the Arkenstone . While trying to find Bilbo reveals his knowledge of Sauron\ in Laketown attempts to bring the black arrow to the town\ 's launcher , as he fears what may happen when the Dwarves and Alfrid and his Orc and Legolas then tends to K\xc3\xadli leaves in pursuit of Bolg watches helplessly as Azog army march from Dol Guldur Mountain.\n\nBack and the Dwarves 's flames to create and melt a large golden statue of Thr\xc3\xb3r alive in the molten gold . They do so , but Smaug as Bilbo watch from the Lonely Mountain sets Laketown breaks out of prison , and eventually kills Smaug . Smaug\ and his cronies , who were escaping on a boat laden with the town\ 's gold . Bard , with the Master\ , acting as Bard\ , while Legolas Gundabad . Thorin , which Bilbo , hearing that Laketown , orders the entrance of the Lonely Mountain , Elrond arrive at Dol Guldur , sending him to safety with Radagast and a formless Sauron . Azog with his vast Orc to Gundabad and Tauriel 's army , bolstered by Orc army arrive in Dale in order to reclaim a treasure once withheld from them by Thr\xc3\xb3r goes to the mountain and asks Thorin , but Thorin arrives at Dale and Thranduil , but Thranduil sneaks out of Erebor and Bard 's and Thranduil\ , offering to trade the Arkenstone angrily refuses to believe they have the Arkenstone admits giving it away and chides Thorin nearly kills Bilbo appears and shames Thorin . Thorin\ arrives with his Dwarf ensues , until Wereworms 's army from their tunnels . With the Orcs 's army , Thranduil 's forces , along with Gandalf , join the battle , fighting the Orcs , Ogres attack Dale to withdraw his forces to defend the city , while Alfrid to his ultimate fate.\n\nInside Erebor suffers traumatic hallucinations before regaining his sanity and leading his company to join the battle . He rides towards Ravenhill , F\xc3\xadli to kill Azog follows them , using his magic ring to move through the combat unseen . Meanwhile , Tauriel arrive to warn the Dwarves of Bolg\ is captured , and Azog and the other Dwarves are forced to watch . As Thorin in a fight to the death , Bolg unconscious , overpowers Tauriel , who had come to her aid . Legolas and eventually kills him . Thorin , but is fatally wounded in the process . The Great Eagles and Beorn army , and the Orcs regains consciousness and makes peace with the dying Thorin mourns Kili acknowledges their love . Legolas he must leave , and Thranduil ranger in the north who goes by the name `` Strider Thorin\ ( with D\xc3\xa1in begins to recover with Bard bids farewell to the company\ 's remaining members and journeys home to the Shire . As the two part ways on the outskirts of the Shire admits his knowledge of Bilbo\ returns to Bag End receives a visit from Gandalf and Coral Barrier Reef , and their clutch of hundreds of eggs , when a barracuda attacks . Marlin and all but one of the eggs eaten by the barracuda . He names this last egg Nemo had chosen.\n\nOn the first day of school , the overprotective Marlin during a field trip . While Marlin Ray sneaks away from the reef toward a boat and is captured by a scuba diver . As the boat departs , one of the divers accidentally knocks his diving mask overboard . Marlin , a blue tang who suffers from short-term memory loss . The two encounter Bruce and Chum discovers the diver\ 's mask and notices an address written on it . However , Dory fight over the mask , accidentally giving Dory into an insane feeding frenzy , and he attacks Marlin , who narrowly escape.\n\nNemo is placed in an aquarium in a dentist\ 's office , where he meets the `` Tank Gang , cleaner shrimp Jacques , royal gramma Gurgle , and yellow tang Bubbles idol , Gill is to be given to the dentist\ 's niece Darla devises a plan to escape : jam the aquarium\ 's filter with a pebble so the dentist will have to put the fish in plastic bags to clean the tank , then roll out the window and into the harbor . Nemo reads the address as `` 42 Wallaby Way '' . To her own disbelief , Dory and Marlin from a school of moonfish . On the way , they encounter a bloom of jellyfish that traps and nearly stings them to death . Marlin , who shuttles Marlin on the East Australian Current tells the story of his journey to a group of young sea turtles led by Crush\ . News flies to the dentist\ 's office and brings news of Marlin\ , Nemo Gang exit the East Australian Current communicates with the whale , which carries them to Sydney Harbour , who helps the pair escape from a flock of relentless seagulls and takes them to the dentist\ 's office . Darla to her . Nemo arrives , terrifying Darla is violently thrown out by the dentist , Gill escape into a drain that leads to the ocean.\n\nHaving mistaken Nemo thanks Dory meets Nemo 's memory returns when she reads the word Sydney with Marlin enters the net and orders the grouper to swim downward to break the net and they all escape . Later , having returned home , Marlin proudly watch Mr. Ray and all his new friends to school.\n\nBack at the dentist\ 's office , the filter breaks down , and the tank gang escape into Sydney Harbor Petunia Vernon Potter Dursley . Harry Moody Lupin Tonks Shacklebolt 12 , Grimmauld Place Black of the Phoenix Dumbledore that the Ministry is oblivious to Lord Voldemort\ 's headquarters , Sirius is after a special object he did not have during his previous attack.\n\nHarry\ 's expulsion is reversed at a hearing of the Ministry and he returns to Hogwarts for his fifth year , where Minister Cornelius Fudge Against Arts . Umbridge and punishes him for his `` lies '' by forcing him to write a message with a magic quill , scarring his hand . Despite the concern of his best friends Hermione Granger Weasley refuses to report Umbridge\ , who has mysteriously distanced himself from Harry 's control over the school increases , Harry and Ron 's Army tasks the Slytherin and Cho Chang Weasley 's attacker . Concerned that Voldemort , Dumbledore Snape Occlumency 's influence . These end after Harry 's memories why Snape 's father James to further isolate himself from his friends . Meanwhile , Sirius\ Eater Lestrange along with nine other Death Eaters , Umbridge '' expose Dumbledore\ by forcing Cho . Dumbledore orders his arrest . Umbridge 's refusal to forgive Cho is tortured by Voldemort , Ron rush to Umbridge\ via the Floo Network threatens to use the Cruciatus Curse , Hermione Forest 's `` secret weapon '' . Hermione lead Umbridge Hagrid\ , only to be confronted by centaurs who kidnap Umbridge , Ron Weasley Lovegood Longbottom of Magic in an attempt to save Sirius of Mysteries was after . However , they are ambushed by Death Eaters Malfoy . Lucius only saw a dream of Sirius into the Death Eaters\ refuses to give Lucius 's Army Eaters.\n\nThe Death Eaters , threatening to kill them unless he surrenders the prophecy . As Harry arrive and attack the Death to drop the prophecy , destroying it . Just as Sirius , he is killed by Bellatrix appears , but Dumbledore Network . A duel between Voldemort ensues , which destroys much of the Atrium escapes . Unable to defeat Dumbledore possesses Harry into sacrificing him but the love Harry makes it impossible for Voldemort disapparates ; Fudge 's return and is forced out of his position as Minister is removed from Hogwarts returns as headmaster . Dumbledore throughout the year hoping it would lessen the risk of Voldemort comes to terms with the prophecy : `` Neither can live while the other survives . `` \n\nLord Voldemort worlds , kidnapping Ollivander from Diagon Alley Bridge family is disgraced when Lucius for his involvement with the Death Eaters instead chooses Draco . Draco\ and aunt Bellatrix Lestrange Snape all along . Snape to protect Draco , now 16 years old , accompanies Albus Dumbledore to the village of Budleigh Babberton professor Horace Slughorn , who has been in hiding , agrees to return to teach at Hogwarts then takes Harry , where Harry Weasley Granger and George Weasley\ Alley entering Knockturn Alley Eaters Greyback believes Voldemort a Death Eater and Hermione Express hides in the Slytherin Cloak . Harry Lovegood.\n\nAt Hogwarts and Ron 's Potions is stuck with a copy that turns out to be filled with helpful notes and spells left by the `` Half-Blood Prince '' . Harry , winning a Liquid Luck becomes Keeper Quidditch Brown . Harry and admits that he now has feelings for Ron\ Weasley.\n\nHarry holidays with the Weasleys Eve discusses his suspicions about Draco . His suspicions are dismissed , but Arthur Weasley privately that the Malfoys Cabinet and Greyback , drawing Harry before the Order Eaters . At Hogwarts reveals to Harry that Slughorn that Dumbledore to confront Slughorn did not know anything . Harry Ron , Harry 's help . The trio celebrate with mead that Slughorn . The mead poisons Ron is forced to save his life after Slughorn murmurs Hermione\ to end their relationship . Harry about the mead and a cursed necklace , and the two duel . Harry Prince\ , who is rescued and healed by Snape Magic and Harry of Requirement Luck to give up the memory Dumbledore views the memory with Dumbledore wanted information for creating Horcruxes concludes that Voldemort , two of which have already been destroyed : Tom Riddle\ and Marvolo Gaunt\ aids Dumbledore in drinking a potion that hides another Horcrux 's locket.\n\nA weakened Dumbledore and apparates back to Hogwarts , Greyback Eaters with Draco\ Cabinet of Requirement managed to connect to the one he had been working on in Knockturn Alley instructs Harry arrives in the Astronomy Tower to kill the headmaster . Snape when Draco . He then overpowers Harry Prince , where the students , staff , and a few guests mourn Dumbledore\ and Hermione was a fake . The locket contains a message from `` R.A.B with the intent of destroying it . Rather than returning for their final year at Hogwarts from a dream of Gandalf battling the Balrog Baggins Gamgee Muil and soon become aware that they are being stalked by Gollum . After capturing him , a sympathetic Frodo as a guide to Mordor 's objections.\n\nMeanwhile , Aragorn and Gimli to save their companions Merry . The Uruk-hai are ambushed by the Rohirrim , while the two Hobbits Forest Treebeard 's group later meets the Rohirrim is being manipulated by Saruman\ Wormtongue 's forces running rampant in Rohan , Aragorn\ , who , after succumbing to his injuries while killing the Balrog , has been resurrected as Gandalf to help save Middle-earth.\n\nAragorn\ 's capital city Edoras releases Th\xc3\xa9oden 's influence and Wormtongue 's plans to wipe out Rohan decides to move his citizens to Helm\ , an ancient fortress that has provided refuge to Rohan\ departs to acquire the aid of the Rohirrim builds a friendship with Th\xc3\xa9oden\ , who quickly becomes infatuated with him . When the exodus comes under attack by Warg-riding Orcs falls off a cliff into a river and is presumed dead . However , he is found by his horse Brego 's Deep 's Deep waiting for them as a night-long battle follows . Using gunpowder-like explosives on a sewer drain that Wormtongue about , the Uruk-hai , Merry , having met Gandalf they were allies , are brought to an Ent Council then tells Treebeard , where they witness the devastation caused to the forest by Saruman\ summons the Ents and they storm Isengard in Orthanc.\n\nAt Helm\ , Aragorn to ride out and meet the Uruks and the Rohirrim while those remaining flee and are slaughtered . Despite this victory , Gandalf 's retaliation will be terrible and swift.\n\nMeanwhile , becoming loyal to Frodo through the Dead Marshes convinces the Hobbits Gate and Sam led by Faramir . After torturing Gollum saves him from being killed , Faramir and takes his captives with him to Gondor city of Osgiliath reveals that Boromir\ . An attacking Nazg\xc3\xbbl , who momentarily attacks Sam to remind him that they are fighting for the good still left in Middle-earth is impressed by Frodo\ . While leading the hobbits once more , Gollum and reclaim the ring by leading the group to `` Her '' upon arriving at Cirith Ungol.\n\n\nBrandon Gray partnered with Sean Saulsbury 2008 , the company was purchased by Amazon.com Movie Database \n\nFrom 2002\xe2\x80\x9311 , Box Office Mojo Box Office a Year of Movies Box Office Mojo 2 , 2011 the forums were officially closed along with any user accounts , and users were invited to join IMDb\ \n\nOn 10 November Hugh Beaver Breweries , [ 5 ] went on a shooting party in the North Slob Slaney Wexford . After missing a shot at a golden plover , he became involved in an argument over which was the fastest game bird in Europe House 's fastest game bird . [ 7 ] [ 8 ] Beaver and abroad , but there was no book in the world with which to settle arguments about records . He realised then that a book supplying the answers to this sort of question might prove successful . [ 9 ] \n\nBeaver\ employee Christopher Chataway friends Norris McWhirter . The twin brothers were commissioned to compile what became The Guinness Book in August Book at 107 Fleet Street , the first 198-page edition was bound on 27 August . The following year , it launched in the US World Records World Records \n\nBecause the book became a surprise hit , many further editions were printed , eventually settling into a pattern of one revision a year , published in September/October . The McWhirters continued to compile it for many years . Both brothers had an encyclopedic memory ; on the TV series Record Breakers McWhirter Irish Republican Army ' assassination , the feature in the show where questions about records posed by children were answered was called Norris Superlatives World Records was formed in 1954 to publish the first book . Sterling Publishing book in the US PLC until 2001 , when it was purchased by Gullane Entertainment was itself purchased by HIT Entertainment Partners purchased HiT World Pattison Group Entertainment World Records\ York City , Guinness World Records\ , while its museum attractions are based at Ripley , Florida the eve of the American Civil War O\'Hara , her family\ 's cotton plantation in Georgia learns that Ashley Wilkes\xe2\x80\x94whom Hamilton 's home , the nearby plantation Twelve Oaks.\n\nAt Oaks privately declares her feelings to Ashley are more compatible . Scarlett Butler watches Ashley goodbye , Melanie\ proposes to her . Although she does not love him , Scarlett dies from a bout of pneumonia and measles while serving in the Confederate Army 's mother sends her to the Hamilton to cheer her up , although the O\'Haras\ tells Scarlett 's return . Scarlett with Melanie again , now a blockade runner for the Confederacy victory and to raise money for the Confederate makes an inordinately large bid for Scarlett of Gettysburg 's town are killed . Scarlett while he is visiting on Christmas Day Army Campaign and her young house slave Prissy 's baby without medical assistance after she goes into premature labor . Afterwards , Scarlett to take her home to Tara , her baby , and Prissy and the group to make their own way back to Tara finds Tara and Pork learns that her mother has just died of typhoid fever and her father has become incompetent . With Tara troops and the fields untended , Scarlett work in the cotton fields , Scarlett\ , Ashley . When Scarlett . Unable to pay the taxes on Tara dupes her younger sister Suellen\ Kennedy got tired of waiting and married another suitor.\n\nFrank , Ashley and several other accomplices make a night raid on a shanty town after Scarlett 's death . With Frank\ proposes to Scarlett names Bonnie Blue , still pining for Ashley know that she wants no more children and that they will no longer share a bed.\n\nOne day at Frank\ and Ashley 's sister , India she eagerly spreads rumors . Later that evening , Rhett to attend a birthday party for Ashley of believing anything bad of her , Melanie 's side so that all know that she believes the gossip to be false . After returning home from the party , Scarlett downstairs drunk , and they argue about Ashley kisses Scarlett to the bedroom . The next day , Rhett a divorce , which she rejects , saying that it would be a disgrace . When Rhett , Scarlett dies while attempting to jump a fence with her pony.\n\nScarlett and Rhett , who has suffered complications arising from a new pregnancy , on her deathbed . As Scarlett , Rhett . Having realized that it was he she truly loved all along , and not Ashley pleads with Rhett rebuffs her and walks away into the morning fog , leaving her in tears on the staircase , vowing to one day win back his love.\n\nIn 2154 , humans have depleted Earth\ Administration for short ) mines for a valuable mineral \xe2\x80\x94 , a densely forested habitable moon orbiting the gas giant Polyphemus Centauri , whose atmosphere is poisonous to humans , is inhabited by the Na\'vi explore Pandora\ Sully , replaces his deceased identical twin brother as an operator of one . Dr. Grace Augustine Program an inadequate replacement but accepts his assignment as a bodyguard . While protecting the avatars of Grace . Norm Spellman 's avatar is attacked by a thanator and flees into the forest , where he is rescued by Neytiri . Witnessing an auspicious sign , she takes him to her clan , whereupon Neytiri\ , the clan\ 's spiritual leader , orders her daughter to initiate Jake Quaritch 's private security force , promises Jake that the company will restore his legs if he gathers information about the Na\'vi , [ 36 ] which stands above the richest deposit of unobtanium in the area . When Grace , and Norm grows to sympathize with the natives . After Jake choose each other as mates , and soon afterward , Jake site . When Quaritch shows a video recording of Jake\ Parker Selfridge admits that the Na\'vi , Selfridge destroyed.\n\nDespite Grace\ could damage the biological neural network native to Pandora gives Jake one hour to convince the Na\'vi , Jake take him and Grace 's men destroy Hometree 's father ( the clan chief ) and many others . Mo\'at and Grace 's forces . Pilot Trudy Chac\xc3\xb3n 's brutality , frees Jake and Grace 's outpost , but during the escape Quaritch regain the Na\'vi\ connects his mind to that of Toruk . Jake of Souls to heal Grace from her human body into her avatar with the aid of the Tree , but she dies before the process can be completed . Supported by the new chief Tsu\'tey speaks to unite the clan and tells them to gather all of the clans to battle against the RDA organizes a pre-emptive strike against the Tree , believing that its destruction will demoralize the natives . On the eve of battle , Jake , via a neural connection with the Tree , to intercede on behalf of the Na\'vi.\n\nDuring the subsequent battle , the Na\'vi and Trudy wildlife unexpectedly join the attack and overwhelm the humans , which Neytiri 's answer to Jake\ destroys a makeshift bomber before it can reach the Tree ; Quaritch suit , escapes from his own damaged aircraft and breaks open the avatar link unit containing Jake\ 's poisonous atmosphere . Quaritch prepares to slit the throat of Jake\ kills Quaritch , Norm and sent back to Earth is permanently transferred into his avatar with the aid of the Tree 1996 , treasure hunter Brock Lovett Mstislav Keldysh Titanic of the Ocean 14 , 1912 , the day the ship struck the iceberg . [ Note 1 ] Rose Dawson Calvert and tells Lovett 1912 Southampton DeWitt Bukater Hockley board the luxurious Titanic emphasizes that Rose\ over the engagement , Rose Dawson , Rose saved her from falling . When Cal deserves a reward . He invites Jack and Rose and Ruth secretly joins Jack and Ruth\ rebuffs Jack\ . After rendezvousing on the bow at sunset , Rose to her state room ; at her request , Jack posing nude wearing Cal\ of the Ocean 's bodyguard , Mr. Lovejoy 's sketch of Rose and Rose of the collision , Lovejoy 's pocket and he and Cal is arrested , taken to the master-at-arms\ ' office , and handcuffed to a pipe . Cal flees Cal . On the boat deck , Cal encourage her to board a lifeboat ; Cal off safely . After Rose boards one , Cal the arrangement is only for himself . As her boat lowers , Rose and jumps back on board . Cal and Jack realizes he gave his coat and consequently the necklace to Rose and Rose and Rose dies of hypothermia [ 8 ] but Rose hiding from Cal Carpathia York City gives her name as Rose Dawson says she later read that Cal Street Crash decides to abandon his search after hearing Rose\ , Rose of the Ocean \xe2\x80\x93 and drops it into the sea over the wreck site . While she is seemingly asleep or has died in her bed , [ 9 ] photos on her dresser depict a life of freedom and adventure inspired by the life she wanted to live with Jack young Rose at the Titanic\ Staircase spies have stolen plans to the Galactic Empire\ Star Leia 's leaders , has obtained the plans , but her starship is captured by an Imperial Star Destroyer Vader hides the plans in the memory of astromech droid R2-D2 , flees in an escape pod to the desert planet below the starships , Tatooine.\n\nThe traders , who sell them to moisture farmers Owen Lars Skywalker , Luke , in which she requests help from Obi-Wan Kenobi finds R2-D2 missing , and encounters `` Old Ben , a hermit who reveals himself as Obi-Wan of his days as one of the Jedi Knights Republic until being all but wiped out by the Empire to what his uncle has told him , Luke as a Jedi Knight , a former pupil of Obi-Wan\ and murdered him . Obi-Wan presents Luke with his father\ 's old weapon : a lightsaber.\n\nR2-D2 plays Leia\ , in which she begs him to take the Death Star and give them to her father for analysis . Obi-Wan invites Luke and learn the ways of the Force declines , but changes his mind after discovering that Imperials have killed his aunt and uncle and destroyed their farm . Obi-Wan visit a cantina in Mos Eisley Solo co-pilot Chewbacca 's ship , the Millennium Falcon.\n\nThe has been destroyed by the Death Star\ Moff Tarkin is captured by the Death Star\ goes to disable . Luke is imprisoned on the Death Star and Chewbacca Vader escapes amid a fierce dogfight with Imperial TIE , the Imperials follow the rebels to the hidden base on Yavin Star joins the Rebel collects his payment , intending to leave . In the ensuing battle , the Rebels leads a squadron of TIE 's X-wing , but Han fighters , sending Vader 's spirit , Luke to destroy the Death Star base . On Yavin awards Luke with medals for their heroism.\n\nIn 1938 , Maria woman studying to become a nun at Nonnberg Abbey . Her love of music and the mountains , her youthful enthusiasm and imagination , and her lack of discipline cause some concern among the nuns . The Mother Abbess would be happier outside the abbey , sends her to the villa of retired naval officer Captain Georg von Trapp , Louisa , Brigitta , and Gretl has been raising his children using strict military discipline following the death of his wife . Although the children misbehave at first , Maria , the oldest , is won over after Maria , a messenger boy she is in love with.\n\nWhile the Captain , Maria and the surrounding mountains , and teaches them how to sing . When the Captain Elsa Schraeder Detweiler and the children returning from a boat ride on the lake that concludes when their boat overturns . Displeased by his children\ 's clothes and activities , and Maria\ orders her to return to the abbey . Just then he hears singing coming from inside the house and is astonished to see his children singing for the Baroness joins his children , singing for the first time in years . Afterwards , he apologizes to Maria proposes he enter them in the upcoming Salzburg Festival as he is opposed to his children singing in public . He does agree , however , to organize a grand party at the villa . The night of the party , while guests in formal attire waltz in the ballroom , Maria notices Maria the traditional L\xc3\xa4ndler in a graceful performance , culminating in a close embrace . Confused about her feelings , Maria , who noticed the Captain\ , hides her jealousy while convincing Maria Abbess has stayed in seclusion to avoid her feelings for the Captain returns to the villa , she learns about the Captain\ and agrees to stay until they find a replacement governess . The Captain\ , however , have not changed , and after breaking off his engagement the Captain the Captain are on their honeymoon , Max Festival has been annexed by the Third Reich , the couple return to their home , where a telegram awaits informing the Captain that he must report to the German Naval base at Bremerhaven . Strongly opposed to the Nazis , the Captain immediately for Switzerland of the Von Trapps\ , whom Liesl Youth family attempt to leave , they are stopped by a group of Brownshirts Hans Zeller maintains they are headed to the Salzburg Festival insists on escorting them to the festival , after which his men will accompany the Captain that night at the festival , during their final number , the von Trapp Abbess . Upon seeing Liesl family make their way on foot across the frontier into Switzerland under cover of night to gather plant specimens in a California Fernando Valley is spending time with his brother , Michael leaves Reese\ realizes it is imitating his movements . He feigns illness the next morning to stay home from school and play with it . Later that day , Michael , meet it . They decide to keep it hidden from their mother , Mary begins to experience a psychic connection with the alien , including exhibiting signs of intoxication ( because it is at his home , drinking beer and watching Tom ) , and he begins freeing all the frogs in his biology class . As the alien watches John Wayne O\'Hara Man then kisses a girl he likes in the same manner and he is sent to the principal\ 's office.\n\nThe alien learns to speak English by repeating what Gertie Street 's urging , dubs itself `` E.T . reads a comic strip where Buck Rogers . receives Elliott\ & Spell notices that E.T.\ is referring to himself as `` we '' .\n\nOn Halloween and Elliott . as a ghost so they can sneak him out of the house . That night , Elliott . head through the forest , where they make a successful call home . The next day , Elliott . gone . Elliott searches for and finds E.T takes E.T , who is also dying . Mary , Mary while treating Elliott . Their connection disappears and E.T recovers . A grief-stricken Elliott . when he notices a dead chrysanthemum , the plant E.T . reanimates and reveals that his people are returning . Elliott steal a van that E.T 's friends joining them as they attempt to evade the authorities by bicycles . Suddenly facing a police roadblock , they escape as E.T before.\n\nStanding near the spaceship , E.T.\ , Gertie '' , a friendly government agent , show up . E.T and Gertie and tells him `` I\ 's forehead . He then picks up the chrysanthemum , boards the spaceship , and it takes off , leaving a rainbow in the sky as everyone watches it leave.\n\nPharaoh Rameses orders the death of all newborn Hebrew saves her infant son by setting him adrift in a basket on the Nile , the Pharaoh\ , recognizes the child is Hebrew names the baby Moses.\n\nPrince Moses and establishing an alliance . Moses and princess Nefretiri . While working on the building of a city for Pharaoh Sethi\ meets the stonecutter Joshua God saves an elderly woman from being crushed not knowing that she is his biological mother , Yoshebel Rameses 's adoptive brother , charges him with planning an insurrection . Moses is the man the Hebrews learns from Memnet is the son of Hebrew but reveals the story to Moses cloth he was wrapped in as a baby , which Memnet to Yoshebel\ Aaron Miriam.\n\nMoses urges him to return to the palace so he may help his people when he becomes pharaoh , to which he agrees after he completes a final task . Moses saves Joshua , telling Joshua . The confession is witnessed by the overseer Dathan , but would free the slaves if he could . Sethi banishes Moses as the sole heir . Yoshebel . After defending seven sisters from Amalekites is housed with the girls\ ' father Jethro sheik , who worships the God . Moses 's eldest daughter Sephora , who has escaped hard labor . While farming , Moses Sinai . Moses returns to Egypt to free the Hebrews.\n\nMoses 's snake swallows his . Rameses prohibits straw from being provided to the Hebrews rescues Moses from being stoned to death by the Hebrews to blood at a festival of Khnum 's palace . Moses warns him the next plague to fall upon Egypt himself . Enraged at the plagues , Rameses orders all first-born Hebrews , including the child of Rameses . Angrily , Pharaoh , which begins the Exodus from Egypt.\n\nRameses to the Red Sea uses God\ Sea make it to safety , Moses returns empty-handed to Nefretiri 's god as God.\n\nMoses . Impatiently urges a reluctant Aaron . A sees the Ten Commandments in two stone tablets . Moses descends from the mountain to the sight of decadence . Enraged leads the Hebrews . However , he could not enter the Promised land due to his disobedience to the Lord of Strife as leader , and spends the rest of his life at Mount Nebo I years , World War of 1917 , and the Russian Civil War narrative framing device , set in the late 1940s or early 1950s , involves KGB Lieutenant General Yevgraf Andreyevich Zhivago Guinness Yuri Andreyevich Zhivago Sharif ( `` Lara Christie believes a young woman , Tanya Komarova Tushingham , the orphaned Yuri Zhivago : Alexander Richardson Gromeko McKenna ( Geraldine Chaplin , as a medical student in training , but a poet at heart , meets Tonya as she returns to Moscow . Lara Ippolitovich Komarovsky Steiger Corri Pavlovich '' ) Antipov Courtenay runs to Lara and attempts suicide . Komarovsky Keen 's former professor , whom he accompanies back to Lara\ learns of Lara\ , he tries to dissuade Lara takes the pistol she has been hiding for Pasha at a Christmas Eve insists no action be taken against Lara . Zhivago 's wound . Although enraged and devastated by Lara\ , Pasha , and they have a daughter named Katya.\n\nDuring World War Zhivago to subvert the Imperial . Pasha enlists as a nurse to search for him . Yuri Zhivago Revolution enlists Lara\ as Vladimir Lenin . Before their departure , Yuri fall in love , but Yuri , who became his wife.\n\nAfter the war , Yuri , son Sasha ( Anna has been divided into tenements by the new Soviet government . Yevgraf , now a member of the Cheka . Yevgraf and his family to escape from the new political capital of Moscow estate at Varykino Mountains , Tonya , and Alexander commander named Strelnikov Antipov.\n\nWhile wanders away . He stumbles across the armoured train of Strelnikov is summoned before Strelnikov Antipov informs Yuri is now living in the town of Yuriatin Army to return to his family , although it is hinted by Strelnikov\ end up being shot.\n\nThe family lives a peaceful life in a cottage at the Varykino finds Lara , at which point they surrender to their long-repressed feelings . When Tonya breaks off with Lara at last deserts and trudges through the deep snow to Yuriatin where he finds Lara tells Yuri had discovered her while searching for him , and that his family is now in Moscow had mailed to Lara 6 months ago to give to Yuri : Tonya , her father , and their children are being deported and will live in Paris and Lara arrives and informs them they are being watched by the Cheka 's connection by marriage to Strelnikov 's `` counter-revolutionary '' poetry and desertion . Komarovsky and Lara . They refuse . Instead , they return to the abandoned Varykino '' poems . These will later make him famous but also incur government displeasure . Komarovsky was captured only five miles away while apparently returning to Lara is in immediate danger of execution herself , as the Cheka out of hiding . Zhivago and Katya , who has been appointed a government official in the nominally independent Far Eastern Republic remains behind to face his fate.\n\nYears later , Yevgraf in Moscow era and gives him a new suit and a job . While riding a tram , Yuri walking on a nearby street . Unable to call her from the tram , Yuri runs after her but suffers a fatal heart attack before he can even signal to her , and the woman walks away oblivious to Yuri\ 's funeral is well attended , a surprise to Yevgraf 's poetry was officially `` unobtainable at the time '' . Lara at the funeral and reveals she had given birth to Yuri\ . After vainly looking over hundreds of orphans with Yevgraf\ disappears during Joseph Stalin\ Purge Yevgraf Komarova and Lara\ leaves , Yevgraf 's mother was especially gifted at playing . Questioning her further , he learns that Tanya smiles , `` Ah and Lara\ Island England Watkins Brody Larry Vaughn was killed in a boating accident . Brody offers his services for $ 10,000 . Meanwhile , consulting oceanographer Matt Hooper 's remains , and confirms her death was caused by a shark\xe2\x80\x94an unusually large one.\n\nWhen local fishermen catch a tiger shark , the mayor proclaims the beaches safe . Hooper and Brody 's boat . Underwater retrieves a sizable great white shark\ 's tooth embedded in the submerged hull . He drops it in fright after encountering a partial corpse . Vaughn and Hooper\ of July 's oldest son , Michael to hire Quint.\n\nQuint , and Hooper 's boat , the Orca lays down a chum line , Quint , estimating its length at 25 feet ( 7.6 m ) and weight at 3 tons , harpoons it with a line attached to a flotation barrel , but the shark pulls the barrel underwater and disappears.\n\nAt nightfall , Quint drunkenly exchange stories about their assorted scars and Quint Indianapolis attempts to call the Coast Guard , who has become obsessed with killing the shark without outside assistance , smashes the radio . After a long chase , Quint heads toward shore to draw the shark into shallower waters , but he intentionally pushes the damaged engine past the safety limits and the overtaxed engine fails.\n\nWith the Orca puts on scuba gear and enters the water in a shark-proof cage , intending to lethally inject the shark with strychnine , using a hypodermic spear . The shark demolishes the cage before Hooper . Trapped on the sinking vessel , Brody surfaces , and he and Brody Island Civil War Order Empire Republic and led by General Leia Organa searches for her brother , Luke Skywalker.\n\nOn , Resistance Dameron 's location from Lor San Tekka Ren , while Kylo Tekka 's droid BB-8 , near a junkyard settlement . Kylo using the Force . Stormtrooper FN-2187 Order , and they escape in a stolen TIE names FN-2187 '' . As they turn back to Jakku , they are shot down by a First Order Star Destroyer survives and assumes that Poe and BB-8 , Rey flee the planet in the Millennium Falcon is captured by a larger ship piloted by Han Solo , looking to reclaim their former vessel . The group is attacked by gangs seeking to settle debts with Han . At the First Order\ Base Leader Snoke Hux questions Kylo\ Solo says means nothing to him.\n\nThe Falcon 's map is incomplete . Han attempted to rebuild the Jedi Order and meets with cantina owner Maz Kanata to the Resistance is drawn to a secluded vault and finds the lightsaber that once belonged to Luke Skywalker gives Finn destroys a few planets including the Republic in search of BB-8 , Chewbacca are saved by Resistance , who is revealed to have survived the crash on Jakku arrives at Takodana and reunites with Han . Meanwhile , Kylo and takes her to Starkiller Base , Rey mind trick on a nearby guard.\n\nAt the Resistance , BB-8 , who has been inactive since Luke\ Base , the Resistance , Han , and Finn , and plant explosives . Han , calling him by his birth name , Ben refuses and kills Han , who shoots Kylo pursues Finn to the surface . Kylo in a lightsaber duel , leaving him wounded . Rey to defeat Kylo orders Hux to him to complete his training . Rey escape with the unconscious Finn . On D\'Qar , Chewbacca mourn Han\ follows to the oceanic planet Ahch-To and presents him with the lightsaber.\n\nThe film follows two juxtaposed families . One is the Northern Representative Austin Stoneman Representative Thaddeus Stevens [ 14 ] his daughter , and two sons . The other is the Southern Camerons : Dr. Cameron , the elder Stoneman Cameron estate in South Carolina South Cameron Stoneman War and two of the Cameron women are rescued by Confederate home . Ben Cameron of Petersburg '' , but he is also wounded and captured . He is then taken to a Union , D.C.\n\nDuring his stay at the hospital , he is told that he will be hanged . Also at the hospital , he meets Elsie Stoneman takes Cameron\ to tend her son , to see Abraham Lincoln Cameron to pardon Ben is assassinated at Ford\ , his conciliatory postwar policy expires with him . In the wake of the president\ 's death , Austin Stoneman , employing harsh measures that Griffith Era Lynch Carolina policies firsthand . During the election , in which Lynch Carolina fights back by forming the Ku Klux Klan , out of loyalty to her father , breaks off her relationship with Ben , Flora Cameron , a freedman and soldier who is now a captain . He confronts Flora . Trapped on a precipice , Flora she will jump if he comes any closer . When he does , she leaps to her death . Having run through the forest looking for her , Ben home . In response , the Klan , tries him , finds him guilty , and lynches him.\n\nLynch then orders a crackdown on the Klan 's murder . He also secures the passing of legislation allowing mixed-race marriages . Dr. Cameron 's Klan Stoneman Cameron soldiers who agree to hide them . An intertitle states , `` The former enemies of North are united again in defense of their Aryan Stoneman Gov 's crackdown . Elsie Cameron\ to plead for his release . Lynch , tries to force her to marry him , which causes her to faint . Stoneman to be placed in another room . At first , Stoneman tells him he wants to marry a white woman , but is then angered when Lynch 's daughter . Undercover Klansmen 's plight after she breaks a window and cries out for help . Elsie , gathered together and with Ben reaches Ben frees her mouth and screams for help . Lynch , the Klansmen 's militia surrounds and attacks the hut where the Camerons are hiding . The Klansmen at their head , race in to save them just in time . The next election day , blacks find a line of mounted and armed Klansmen Cameron Stoneman Stoneman Cameron Christ we dream of a golden day when the bestial War in the Hall Love of Peace One of the unusual characteristics of the film is that many of the characters do not have names . Griffith One , and the leader of the local Mafia of the Slums 's sentimentalism , which was already hinted at in The Birth Colonel.\n\nBecause ) , the Siren , by a clever ruse reaches Caesar ) and he falls victim to her charms . They plan to rule the world together , but then Caesar 's life is desired by the church , as the wanton woman\ 's rule has become intolerable . Pharon ) , a high priest , is given a sacred dagger to take her life . He gives her his love instead and , when she is in need of some money , leads her to the tomb of his ancestors , where she tears the treasure from the breast of the mummy . With this wealth she goes to Rome to meet Antony ) . He leaves the affairs of state and travels to Alexandria is recalled to Rome ( Blinn . He sends her a message to arm her ships and meet him at Actium . There they are captured by Octavius Vries dies in Cleopatra\ is to be dragged behind the wheels of Octavius\ the priest , who has never ceased to love her , brings her the serpent that she joyously brings to her breast , dying royally with her crown on her head and scepter in her hand as becomes Egypt.\n\nMickey ) is an adult orphan who has been raised since girlhood in poverty near Feather River by an unsuccessful miner , Joe Meadows . Mickey took charge of Mickey is sent to live in Great Neck Island\xe2\x80\x94part York City\xe2\x80\x94with Geoffrey Drake Drake is wealthy and well refined . When Mickey arrives at her aunt\ 's luxurious home , the aunt is disappointed that she is not well-to-do and puts her to work as a servant . Mickey\ Drake Thornhill Oakman first encountered in California is sent packing , a telegram arrives for her announcing that a vein has been struck on Joe\ mine and she is suddenly worth millions . Mrs. Drake\ changes quickly and she is welcomed back\xe2\x80\x94in the hope she and Mrs Drake\ , will become a couple . Herbert , but realizes he truly loves Mickey receives a telegram from his lawyer , Tom Rawlings and Mrs. Drake is now bankrupt . Herbert finds out about the plot . Just as the race is about to begin , Mickey . Just as it appears Mickey\ reluctantly goes horseback riding with Reggie arrives on the scene , battles Reggie as she is dangling dangerously from the rooftop . Mickey are married . As they depart on their honeymoon , a note arrives from lawyer Rawlings explaining the earlier telegram about his mining interests being worthless was a ruse designed to get Herbert Drake and Herbert England play 1914 ) , where a group of con men plan to use a faith healer to collect money.\n\nIn New York City\ , four crooks conspire to swindle a small New England Burke Meighan ( Betty Compson '' ( J.M ) , who pretends to pimp Rose ( Lon Chaney there is a Patriarch Dowling in a faith healing scheme . When the townspeople gather to see the Patriarch is there , posing as a cripple . As he crawls to the path of the man , his limbs become straightened and soon he walks to the Patriarch overpowering him , loses his crutches and runs to the Patriarch.\n\nThe ) , and people flock in from all over to visit the Patriarch King Lawson Butt $ 50,000 after the Patriarch meets Rose . One by one , he sees his gang disbanding because , unbeknownst to him , the healing power of the Patriarch gives up his life of crime and takes care of a widow left all alone , and Rose 's departure.\n\nBurke becomes jealous , but when King . The Patriarch ( Lowell Sherman ) is a poor country girl whom Lennox Lennox Bartlett McIntosh ( Richard Barthelmess Bartlett\ shows up lusting for another local girl , Kate , he tries to get her to leave , but she refuses to go , although she promises to say nothing about his past.\n\nFinally , Squire Bartlett 's past from Martha out into a snow storm . Before she goes , she fingers the respected Lennox becomes lost in the raging storm while David floats on an ice floe down a river towards a waterfall , until rescued at the last moment by David '' ( Pomeroy Cannon landowner , has a German son-in-law whom he dislikes and a French one whose family he openly favors . He is particularly fond of his grandson Julio Valentino district of Buenos Aires Dominguez strides up and asks to cut in . The woman stares at Julio then challenges the man and strikes him , knocking him into some tables and out of the scene . Julio 's lap . Madariaga . Julio dies . The extended family breaks up , one half returning to Germany Paris enjoys a somewhat shiftless life as a would-be artist and sensation at the local tea dances . He falls in love with Marguerite Laurier Terry Laurier 's father . The affair is discovered , and Marguerite\ and Marguerite War.\n\nMarguerite . The bravery of Etienne happens to end up at the hospital where she is working , and Marguerite travels to Lourdes to see Marguerite . Julio the meantime , the German Army 's father Marcelo\ Valley Battle . Marcelo 's three German nephews is amongst the staff and tries to protect him , but Marcelo is to be executed in the morning , but his life is spared when the French Army of the Marne has survived and become renowned for his bravery in the trenches at the front . During a mission in no man\ 's land , he encounters his last surviving German cousin . Moments later , they are both killed by a shell . Back , Marguerite , but Julio\ Desnoyers mourning over his son\ 's grave . The man who lived upstairs from Julio asks him , `` Did the Four Horsemen riding away into the clouds . With this , the man assures him that `` Peace Horsemen of Huntingdon Guy , in a joust . Huntingdon the Lion-Hearted and has left his brother , Prince John Guy 's throne . When Huntingdon Marian Fitzwalter . King Richard has turned coward and denies him permission . The Earl Guy , endangering his life and honor , to oppose Prince John Richard\ apparently dead.\n\nHuntingdon returns to Nottingham Hood Tuck John Scarlet , he labors to set things right through swashbuckling feats and makes life miserable for Prince John Sheriff . After rescuing Marian from Prince John\ Guy is captured . The timely reappearance of King Richard and foils the efforts of Prince John.\n\nCast ( Lloyd Hughes Tressilian Sills Godolphin MacDonald 's fianc\xc3\xa9e , whom Lionel is captured by Spaniards and made a galley slave , but when he escapes to the Moors he becomes Sakr-el-Bahr . Learning 's ( Enid Bennett ( Frank Currier of Algiers intercedes to save his life , and following the death of Lionel States in 1917 , James '' Apperson\ Gilbert enters World War I. Jim makes friendships with Southern construction worker Slim Dane bartender Bull O\'Brien , where they are billeted at a farm in the village of Champillon three men are attracted to Melisande Ador\xc3\xa9e , bonding at first over chewing gum . They eventually fall in love , despite not being able to speak each other\ 's language . One day , however , Jim ( Claire Adams sees the picture , she realizes the situation and runs off in tears . Before Jim hears the commotion and races back , just in time for the lovers to embrace and kiss.\n\nThe Americans march towards the front and are strafed by an enemy fighter before it is shot down . The unit is sent to the attack immediately , advancing against snipers and machine guns in the woods , then more machine guns , artillery , and poison gas in the open . They settle down in a makeshift line . Jim and Bull.\n\nThat wins a spitting contest for the opportunity . He succeeds , but is spotted and wounded on the way back . After listening to Slim\ can not stand it any longer and goes to his rescue against orders . Bull reaches Slim is then shot in the leg . When a German ( George Beranger shoots and wounds him . The German starts crawling back to his line . Jim is not stuck in no man\ 's land for long ; the Americans attack , and he is taken away to a hospital.\n\nFrom another patient , he learns that Champillon , Jim and her mother have joined a stream of refugees . Jim goes home to America and Jim\ ( Robert Ober 's absence , they have fallen in love . When Jim , Jim ; she tells him to go back and find her . When he returns to the farm , Melisande tribune , Messala 's arrest , Messala and his family are jailed and separated.\n\nBen-Hur is sentenced to slave labor in a Roman , the carpenter\ 's son who offers him water . Once aboard ship , his attitude of defiance and strength impresses a Roman Arrius saves him from drowning.\n\nArrius then treats Ben-Hur in a chariot race , in which Ben-Hur does not die , as he does in the more famous 1959 remake of the film.\n\nBen-Hur is eventually reunited with his mother and sister , who are suffering from leprosy but are miraculously cured by Jesus Christ J. Harold Manners Lloyd Paul Weigel , who was talking to another person about his dream to build a mission , assumes he wants to pay for the mission and tells him $ 1000 . Though he finds that a rather hefty amount for a mere pushcart , Manners Harold Manners Mission Paul\ ( Jobyna Ralston returns and invites him inside to tour the place , he readily accepts . Hope runs through town provoking people , and winds up with a crowd chasing him right into the mission . Some of the men are in possession of the proceeds of a jewel robbery . Before they can beat him up , however , the police arrive . The quick-witted Manners takes up a `` collection '' ; the crooks deposit their loot in the hat he is using while the police search everybody . This act earns him the friendship of the gang.\n\nHe eventually wins the girl and they decide to get married at the mission . His high-brow friends decide to kidnap him , believing they are saving him from a terrible mistake . As they drive away , one of them tells the wedding\ 's `` reception committee '' that Manners . The disappointed committeemen get drunk . Then their leader decides to go to Manner\ Powell Armstrong Lewis fails to realize that `` the girl next door '' , Mary Preston Service mistakenly believes Sylvia and lets him know about her feelings , but is too kindhearted to turn down Jack\ are billeted together . Their tent mate is Cadet White is killed in an air crash the same day . Undaunted , the two men endure a rigorous training period , where they go from being enemies to best friends . Upon graduating , they are shipped off to France joins the war effort by becoming an ambulance driver . She later learns of Jack\ Star . She finds him , but he is too drunk to recognize her . She puts him to bed , but when two military police barge in while she is innocently changing from a borrowed dress back into her uniform in the same room , she is forced to resign and return to the United States.\n\nThe of Saint-Mihiel is shot down and presumed dead . However , he survives the crash landing , steals a German biplane , and heads for the Allied spots the enemy aircraft and , bent on avenging his friend , begins an attack . He is successful in downing the aircraft and lands to retrieve a souvenir of his victory . The owner of the land where David\ to come to the dying man\ 's side . He agrees and becomes distraught when he realizes what he has done . David returns home to a hero\ 's welcome . He visits David\ 's death . Mrs. Armstrong who is responsible for her son\ 's death , but the war . Then , Jack and realizes he loves her.\n\nAfter years of hopeful struggle , Al Stone ) is on his way . `` I\ ' on Top of the World discovers , getting there is one thing . Staying there is another . Singing waiter Stone success and marriage follow , but sure enough , hard times are on the way . Al\ with her . Heartbroken becomes a devastated loner until friends from the speakeasy that launched his career rescue him from a life on the streets . Soon is back in lights . But another crisis awaits : Sonny Boy ( Charles King Melody Sisters vaudeville York Zanfield Kane '' Mahoney Love Mahoney Page 's arrival at their apartment . Hank is lauded for her beauty . Hank is less eager to put everything on the line to become a star . Hank ( Jed Prouty , arrives and sees Queenie 's revue to present their act . A blond woman sabotages their performance by placing a bag in the piano , which causes a fight with Hank isn\'t interested in it , but says he might have a use for Queenie a part as well , saying both will work for one wage . She also convinces him to pretend that Hank\ for her devotion to her sister . During a dress rehearsal for the revue , Zanfield Melody and Queenie is selected to replace her . Nearly everyone is captivated by Queenie `` Jock ( Kenneth Thomson begins to woo Queenie is upset that Queenie spends a lot of time with Jock and Eddie pushing them away and the deterioration of the relationship between the sisters . Queenie to fight her growing feelings for Eddie thinks she\ 's setting herself up to be hurt . Eventually , Eddie confess their love for each other , but Queenie once again.\n\nHank , after witnessing Queenie\ and his devastated reaction to it , finally realizes that they are in love . She berates Eddie run away and tells him to go after her . She claims to never have loved him and that she\ 'd only been using him to advance her career . After he leaves , she breaks down and alternates between sobs and hysterical laughter . She composes herself enough to call Uncle Jed had recently purchased for Queenie bursts in and attempts to fight Jock runs to Eddie and the party behind.\n\nSometime later , Hank Jed and Eddie and Eddie announces she\ 's through with show business and will settle down in their new house on Long Island live with them when her job is over . After Hank Jed laments the fact that she wasn\'t able to help her sister find the happiness she deserves . Ironically 's new partner is the blond who tried to sabotage the act when the sisters first arrived in New York on her way to the train station . She promises her new partner that they\ 'll be back on Broadway Jack Cromwell Island York City Day block Carr , Manhattan Swenson and her flatmate , Bea Nichols [ 4 ] Gaynor ) Sunny Side Up on the Heat 's participation.\n\nProfessor Kantorek and `` saving the Fatherland Baumer Himmelstoss ) . The new soldiers are assigned to a unit composed of older soldiers , who are not exactly accommodating . The young soldiers find that there is no food available at the moment . They have not eaten since breakfast , but the men they have joined have not had food for two days . One of them , `` Kat , had gone to locate something to eat and he returns with a slaughtered hog he has stolen from a field kitchen . The young soldiers `` pay '' for their dinner with soaps and cigarettes.\n\nThe new recruits\ ' first trip to the trenches with the veterans , to re-string barbed wire , is a harrowing experience , especially when Behn speaks familiarly about himself and the Kaiser jokes that instead of having a war , they should have the leaders of Europe Himmelstoss stabs a French soldier , but finds himself trapped in a hole with the dying man for an entire night . Throughout the night , he desperately tries to help him , bringing him water , but fails miserably to stop him from dying . He cries bitterly and begs the dead body to speak so he can be forgiven . Later , he returns to the German lines and is comforted by Kat.\n\nGoing back to the front line , Paul hospital , along with his good friend Albert Kropp 's leg is amputated , but he does not find out until some time afterwards . Around this time , Paul in depression.\n\nPaul is given a furlough and visits his family at home . He is shocked by how uninformed everyone is about the actual situation of the war ; everyone is convinced that a final `` push for Paris visits the schoolroom where he was originally recruited , he finds Professor Kantorek Kantorek to detail his experience , to which the latter reveals that war was not at all like he had envisioned and mentions the deaths of his partners ; this revelation upsets the professor , as well as the young students who promptly call Paul returns to the front and comes upon another 2nd company that is filled with new young recruits who are now disillusioned ; he is then happily greeted by Tjaden , and they discuss the inability of the people to comprehend the futility of the war . Kat\ carries him back to a field hospital - only to find that Kat leaves.\n\nIn the final scene , Paul smiles and reaches out towards the butterfly , but becoming too exposed , he is shot and killed by an enemy sniper . The final shot shows the 2nd Company arriving at the front for the first time , fading out to the image of a cemetery.\n\nFrankenstein begins with Edward Van Sloan Alps Frankenstein , a hunchback , piece together a human body , the parts of which have been collected from various sources , including stolen freshly buried bodies in a cemetery , and the bodies of recently-hanged criminals . Frankenstein to a school where Dr. Waldman 's old medical professor , teaches , to steal a brain ; Fritz Moritz Waldman 's help in reclaiming the young scientist from his experiments . Waldman has been working on creating life . Elizabeth , arrives just as Henry and the hunchback as they raise the dead creature on an operating table , high into the room , toward an opening at the top of the laboratory . Then a terrific crash of thunder booms , and Frankenstein\ 's creature begins to move . This prompts Frankenstein 's alive ! \'.\n\nThe manufactured creature , despite its grotesque form , initially appears to be a simple , innocent creation . Frankenstein enters with a flaming torch , which frightens the creature . Its fright is mistaken by Frankenstein as an attempt to attack them , and it is chained in the dungeon . Thinking that it is not fit for society and will wreak havoc at any chance , they leave the creature locked up , where Fritz and Waldman and Waldman . The creature lunges at the two but they escape , locking the creature inside . Realizing that the creature must be destroyed , Henry as Waldman and Henry\ is worried about the creature but Waldman , Henry examines the creature . As he is preparing to vivisect it , the creature awakens and strangles him . It escapes from the tower and wanders through the landscape . It has a short encounter with a farmer\ 's young daughter , Maria will float as well , so he throws her into the lake where , to his puzzlement , she drowns . Upset by this outcome , the creature runs away.\n\nWith preparations for the wedding completed , Henry . They are to marry as soon as Waldman rushes in , saying that Doctor Waldman suspects the creature . Meanwhile , the creature enters Elizabeth\ unconscious on the bed . The creature has escaped.\n\nMaria\ 's father arrives , carrying his daughter\ 's body . He says she was murdered , and the villagers form a search party to capture the creature , and bring it to justice ( dead or alive ) . In order to search the whole country for the creature , they split into three groups : Ludwig leads the second group into the mountains , and the B\xc3\xbcrgermaster becomes separated from the group and is discovered by the creature , who attacks him . The creature knocks Henry with him . The creature hurls the scientist to the ground . His fall is broken by the vanes of the windmill , saving his life . Some of the villagers hurry him to his home while the rest of the mob set the windmill ablaze , killing the entrapped creature inside.\n\nAt Castle Frankenstein 's father , Baron Frankenstein and Prosperity Tramp encounters the beautiful flower girl on a street-corner and in the course of buying a flower realizes she is blind ; he is instantly smitten . Through an aural coincidence the girl mistakes her customer for the wealthy owner of a chauffeured automobile.\n\nThat evening the Tramp gets some money from the millionaire and catches up to the girl ; he buys all her flowers and drives her home in the millionaire\ 's car.\n\nAfter the Tramp Lee returns to the mansion , where the millionaire \xe2\x80\x93 now sober \xe2\x80\x93 does not remember him and has him thrown out . Later that day , the millionaire is once more intoxicated and , seeing the Tramp is again out on his ear.\n\nFinding that the girl is not at her usual street-corner , the Tramp takes a job as a street sweeper.\n\nOn his lunch break he brings the girl groceries while her grandmother is out selling flowers . To entertain her he reads a newspaper aloud ; in it is a story about a Viennese doctor\ 's blindness cure . `` Wonderful 'll be able to see you , '' says the girl \xe2\x80\x93 and the Tramp returns to work to find himself fired \xe2\x80\x93 he has been late once too often . A boxer convinces him to fight in a fake bout ; they will `` go easy '' on each other and split the prize money . After the boxer flees after learning he is about to be arrested , he is replaced by a no-nonsense fighter who knocks the Tramp 's creative and nimble efforts to keep out of reach.\n\nThe Tramp relates the girl\ 's plight and the millionaire gives him money for her operation . Two burglars knock the millionaire out and flee with the rest of his money . The police find the Tramp evades the police long enough to get the money to the girl , telling her he will be going away for a time , but in due course he is apprehended and imprisoned.\n\nMonths later the Tramp happens by the shop , where the girl is arranging flowers in the window . He stoops to retrieve a flower discarded in the gutter . After a brief skirmish with his old nemeses , the newsboys , he turns to the shop\ 's window though which he suddenly sees the girl , who has been watching him without ( of course ) knowing who he is . At the sight of her he is frozen for a few seconds , then breaks into a broad smile . The girl is flattered and giggles to her employee : `` I\ pantomime through the glass , she kindly offers him a fresh flower ( to replace the crushed one he took from the gutter ) and a coin.\n\nSuddenly embarrassed , the Tramp nods with an uncertain smile and asks , `` You can see now ? '' The girl replies , `` Yes , I can see now '' and tearfully pulls his hand to her bosom . The uncertainty on the Tramp\ York Harbor Denham 's ship , the Venture York City Darrow and sets off , during which the ship\ 's first mate Jack Driscoll reveals to the crew that their destination is in fact Skull Island , rumored to dwell on the island . The crew arrives and anchor offshore . They encounter a native village , separated from the rest of the island by an ancient stone wall . They witness a group of natives preparing to sacrifice a young woman termed the `` bride of Kong night , natives kidnap Ann , an enormous gorilla-like creature . Kong into the wilderness as Denham and some volunteers enter the jungle in hopes of rescuing her . They are ambushed by another giant creature , a Stegosaurus and Kong and Denham attacks Ann , but he kills it in the battle . Meanwhile , Driscoll returns to the village for more men . Upon arriving in Kong\ is menaced by a snake-like Elasmosaurus also kills . While Kong that tried to fly away with Ann reaches her and they climb down a vine dangling from a cliff ledge . When Kong , Englehorn , following , breaks open the gate and relentlessly rampages through the village . Onshore , Denham back alive , knocks him unconscious with a gas bomb.\n\nShackled in chains , Kong York City theatre audience as `` Kong Wonder '' . Ann are brought on stage to join him , surrounded by a group of press photographers . Kong is whisked away to a hotel room on a high floor , but Kong , and abducts Ann rampages through the city . He wrecks a crowded elevated train and then climbs the Empire State Building destroys one , but finally succumbs to their gunfire . He ensures Ann\ and Jack arrives and pushes through a crowd surrounding Kong\ tells him , `` No , it wasn\'t the airplanes . It was Beauty '' .\n\nTira ( Mae West Bill Barton\ Show '' ( Ralf Harolde ( Edward Arnold Brown barges in and attempts to run a badger game on the customer . The customer threatens to call the cops , so Slick whacks him over the head with a bottle . Mistakenly thinking he has killed the man , Slick will implicate her , Tira Bill Pinkowitz Ratoff Show did some of her own stunts , including riding an elephant into the ring . [ citation needed ] ) \n\nTira\ 's fame takes her to New York City Lawrence Taylor Hatton Michael 's friend and even richer cousin , Jack Clayton Grant to ask her to leave Kirk and Jack\xe2\x80\x99s she is quitting to get married . Unwilling to lose his prize act , he has Slick 's penthouse suite , where Jack breaks off the engagement . Tira for breach of promise . The defense tries to use her past relationships to discredit her , but the judge allows her to cross examine the witnesses herself and in doing so she wins over not only the judge and jury , but also Jack agrees to give her a big settlement check . When he goes to see her , Tira and Robert Marryot before midnight , so they can keep their tradition of celebrating the new year with a midnight toast . Although Jane have been married for some years and have two young sons , Edward , they are still very much in love . Jane has joined the City Imperial Volunteers ) as an officer , and will soon be leaving to serve in the Second Boer War 's brother is already fighting in the Siege . Downstairs ' butler Alfred Bridges dons her finest outfit to attend the public outdoor celebrations . Alfred as a private and is also leaving soon . His wife Ellen ' maid , worries about what will become of her and their new baby Fanny is killed or seriously injured , but he is confident despite the pessimistic predictions of Ellen\ Snapper and Bridges dances with other revelers in the street.\n\nShortly thereafter , Jane at the dock when he boards the troop ship bound for Africa tearfully sees off Alfred is away , Jane\ Harris 's young daughter Edith War and Joey Marryot . While Jane are attending a comic operetta at the theatre to take Jane\ is announced from the stage , and the audience cheers . Robert soon return home unharmed , to the delight of their families , and Robert announces to his wife and mother-in-law that he has bought his own pub with money partly provided by Robert will be leaving service and moving to a flat , along with Fanny Snapper 's return , they receive news of the death of Queen Victoria rides in the beginning part of her funeral procession and the family and staff watch it from their upstairs windows.\n\nA few years later , in 1908 , Alfred and Fanny 's drinking and slovenly appearance . Ellen Marryot , who is now in college at Oxford ' flat . Ellen about the visit and lies to the Marryots are leaving , Alfred had given Fanny to run away into the street , where she distracts herself by dancing with some Pearlies . An angry Alfred , attacks the Pearlies , and then stumbles into the street where he is fatally run over by a horse-drawn fire engine.\n\nThe following year , on July and Fanny Bridges family again at the seaside , where Ellen are living off the proceeds from the pub , now owned by Ellen has become a talented dancer and singer . Edward Marryot Harris Bl\xc3\xa9riot Channel.\n\nThree 1912 , Edward have married and are spending their honeymoon on a luxurious four funneled ocean liner , which is dramatically revealed by a camera shot on a life preserver on board to be the ill-fated RMS Titanic scenes make it clear that Edward both perished in the sinking , although the sinking itself , their deaths , and their families\ ' initial reaction to it are not shown , it is only briefly mentioned in later dialogue.\n\nTwo years later , in 1914 , World War and Joe Marryot happens upon Fanny Bridges air raid on London and Joe , who miraculously manages to survive the next four years of the war despite all his fellow officers being killed in action , spends most of his leave time with her , unbeknownst to his parents . He finally proposes , but she hesitates to say yes due to the difference in their social classes , although she does love him . Just after armistice is announced in 1918 , Ellen and Joe\ , reveals the affair to her , and demands that Joe when he returns . While a surprised and upset Jane , Jane has been killed in battle . Later walks sadly through armistice celebrations in Trafalgar Year\ 1933 , with Jane , now elderly , carrying on their tradition of celebrating the new year with a midnight toast to their past memories , as well as to the future.\n\nThe story is set in New York City Lou West barroom saloon of her boss and benefactor , Gus Jordan Beery is a lady with more men friends than anyone might imagine.\n\nWhat she does not know is that Gus Francisco works with two other crooked entertainer-assistants , Russian Rita Ottiano 's lover , the suave Sergei Stanieff Roland 's rivals and former `` friend '' of Lou\ Flynn Landau is up to no good , promising to look after her once Gus leads him on , hinting at times that she will return to him , but eventually he loses patience and implies he\ 'll see her jailed if she doesn\'t submit to him.\n\nA city mission is located next door to the bar . Its young director , Captain Cummings Grant agent working to infiltrate and expose the illegal activities in the bar . Gus will reform his bar and scare away his customers.\n\nLou\ 's former boyfriend , Chick Clark Moore thinks she\ 's betrayed him , she goes to the prison to try to reassure him . All the inmates greet her warmly and familiarly as she walks down the cellblock . Chick gives counterfeit money to Rita to spend . Chick 's room and starts to strangle her , breaking off only because he still loves her and can not harm her . Lou gives Lou , Rita , who accidentally stabs her to death . Lou is dead while the police search the room for Chick Clark ( Dewey Robinson '' dispose of Rita\ to bring Chick and Johnny Flynn is in there with a gun . Chick dead and the gunfire draws a police raid . Cummings shows his badge and reveals himself as `` The Hawk agent , as he arrests Gus . Chick 's room , is about to kill Lou away in an open horse-drawn carriage instead of the paddywagon into which all the other criminals have been loaded . He tells her she doesn\'t belong in jail and removes all her other rings and slips a diamond engagement ring onto her left ring finger.\n\nPlayboy Captain Danilo Chevalier of Marshovia Barbier Sonia MacDonald `` Ellie has eloped with pilot and fortune-hunter King Westley Andrews wants to have the marriage annulled because he knows Westley , she runs away and boards a Greyhound York City Warne Peter . If not , he will tell her father where she is . Ellie loses her initial disdain for him and begins to fall in love . When they have to hitchhike , they fail to secure a ride until Ellie , the next driver . When they stop en route , Danker chases him down and seizes his Model T. Nearing confesses her love to Peter 's car is gone , they expel Ellie Peter telephones her father , who agrees to let her marry Westley has obtained money from his editor to marry Ellie has no desire to be with Westley has betrayed her for the reward money and agrees to have a second , formal wedding ( with Westley comes to Ellie\ offers him the reward money , but Peter 's father presses him for an explanation of his odd behavior and demands to know if he loves her , Peter and storms out . Westley reveals to his daughter Peter\ dumps Westley is working at his desk when Westley , which says , `` What\ are toppling ! `` , referring to a makeshift wall made of a blanket over a wire tied across the rooms they slept in between them to give them privacy . With the annulment in hand , Andrews topple . `` \n\nIn the last scene , we see Peter\ T Falls . The mom and pop owners of the motor court talk , wondering why on such a warm night the newlyweds \xe2\x80\x93 he had seen the marriage license \xe2\x80\x93 , England Bounty inquiring as to who the captain is , another of the men is told the captain is William Bligh Laughton is a brutal tyrant who routinely administers harsh punishment to officers and crew alike who lack discipline , cause any infraction on board the ship , or in any manner defy his authority . The Bounty several days later on a two-year voyage over the Pacific Ocean Christian Gable 's treatment of the crew . Roger Byam Tone , owing to his family\ 's naval tradition , and his friendship with Christian.\n\nDuring the voyage , the enmity between Christian grows after Christian 's unjust practices aboard the ship . When the ship arrives at the island of Tahiti Indies , as intended , Bligh by refusing to let him leave the ship during their stay . Byam ( William Bambridge ( Movita Castaneda persuades Bligh a day pass on the island . Bligh ( Mamo Clark the crew begins to talk of mutiny after Bligh\ Bacchus Digges severely cuts water rationing to the crew in favor of providing more water for the breadfruit plants . Christian 's brutality when he witnesses crew members shackled in iron chains , and he approves the mutiny . The crew raids the weapons cabinet and seizes the ship . Bligh to Bligh\ return to Tahiti , who was in his cabin during the mutiny , disapproves of what Christian is married to Tehani has married Maimiti and Christian Pandora and Christian and several crew members remain on the island for the ship to take them back to England men and women back on board Bounty and , much to his surprise , discovers that Bligh , who suspects that Byam in England Byam speaks of Bligh\ . Due Joseph Banks Stephenson Hood Torrence is pardoned by King George III has found Pitcairn Navy crashes on the rocks , Christian orders her to be burned.\n\nThe film opens with two men in boxing gloves and trunks sparring vigorously . One knocks the other squarely down , concluding their session . Changing out of their exercise gear , the latter dons a natty suit , the former a priest\ 's collar.\n\nThe first man is `` Blackie ( Clark Gable Club Street Coast 's childhood friend , Father Tim Mullen Tracy Catholic Blake MacDonald , Colorado , especially for singing `` San Francisco '' ( Al Shean has a professionally trained voice . Mat Healy 's good friend at the Paradise is not going to stay on the `` Coast makes several attempts to reform Blackie Francisco Board in order to protect their crooked interests . Encouraged by Father Tim can use the supervisor position to implement reform , Blackie Tim\ remains a jaunty Barbary Coast secretly paid for the new organ in Father Tim\ intensify , but complications arise when she is offered an opportunity to sing in the opera . Although she initially refuses to break her contract with Blackie Club 's feelings for her.\n\nMary is hired by the Tivoli Opera House Street Hill Burley Holt wants to stop Mary visits Mary forwardly asks him to marry her . Blackie , who had proclaimed his love for Mary , seeing Burley 's affections , is happy to tell him of their intent to marry . However , as Blackie of their plans , it becomes clear that Blackie away from the Tivoli . Burley , but Blackie with an ultimatum by asking if she wants to marry him or stay at the Tivoli.\n\nMary\ . Backstage if they can set the date for their wedding . Blackie Tim 's skimpy stage costume . He defies Blackie audience . Mary 's reaction to Father Tim\ strikes him in the face.\n\nMary goes back to Burley Ralph Hill Burley that she started out in 1850 as Massie Square Burley '' in her younger days , but chose to marry the more steadfast elder Burley 's decision to accept Burley\ 17 , 1906 . Burley Francisco Police Department , destroying its gambling equipment and running off the patrons . Blackie Ball and Burley Coast requests the Paradise\ , just having learned of the club\ 's closing , enters the Chickens Ball . She rouses the audience to join in a chorus of `` San Francisco angrily refuses the prize money , tossing the prize cup and gold coins to the stage floor . He angrily states that Mary is about to leave the ball with Burley.\n\nThen 18 , 1906 , the earthquake hits the city . The city is devastated and hundreds are killed.\n\nAs Blackie , he walks to Nob Hill Burley did indeed witness the dead Burley Army blow up her mansion in preparation making a firebreak . Blackie , who was injured at the destroyed Hall on Washington Street nurse indicates to Blackie that Mat tells Blackie later meets Father Tim Gate Park hears Mary\ , My God '' with those in mourning . After seeing Mary falls to his knees and thanks God 's life . From a distance , Mary praying , and as she walks toward him , word spreads through the camp that `` The fire\ 's out ! '' As people shout about building a new San Francisco and Mary Hymn '' .\n\nThe film ends with a dissolve from the smoldering ruins into the `` modern '' San Francisco 18 by Bay Area is a lonely princess living with her stepmother , a vain Queen White White daily `` who is the fairest one of all '' . For years the mirror always answers that the Queen Mirror that Snow White to take Snow White White\ can not bring himself to kill Snow White White , Grumpy , Sleepy , Sneezy work in a nearby mine . Returning White White White discovers that Snow White White creates a poisoned apple that will put whoever eats it into the `` Sleeping Death White goes to the cottage while the dwarfs are away , the animals are wary of her and rush off to find the dwarfs . Faking a potential heart attack , the Queen White fools Snow White White proclaims that she is now the fairest of the land . The dwarfs return with the animals as the Queen White White takes Snow White P. Kirby Arnold , D.C. instructs his real estate broker , John Blakely Wilson Vanderhof Barrymore to pursue his dream of making animated toys.\n\nKirby\ 's son , Tony Stewart Sycamore Arthur proposes marriage , Alice 's rich and famous family . In fact , Alice family , led by Vanderhof to the players , Alice\ Forbes 's choice for marriage . Before she accepts , Alice to bring his family to become better acquainted with their future in-laws . But when Tony family is caught off-guard and the house is in disarray . As the Kirbys Carmichael\ Kirby and makes her feel unworthy of her son , while Grandpa Davenport and his family to settle the charges for disturbing the peace and making illegal fireworks by assessing a fine , which Grandpa\ were at the Vanderhof says it was to talk over selling the house , Alice but is spurning him because of how poorly she has been treated by his family . This causes a sensation in the papers , and Alice gone , Grandpa companies merge , creating a huge fluctuation in the stock market . When Kirby\ ( H. B. Warner has a realization he is heading for the same fate , and decides to leave the meeting where the signing the contracts is to take place.\n\nAs the Vanderhofs tries to track down Alice arrives and talks privately with Grandpa responds by inviting him to play `` Polly Wolly Doodle taking Tony says grace for the Sycamore , revealing that Kirby Civil War O\'Hara , her family\ 's cotton plantation in Georgia learns that Ashley Wilkes\xe2\x80\x94whom Hamilton 's home , the nearby plantation Twelve Oaks.\n\nAt Oaks privately declares her feelings to Ashley are more compatible . Scarlett Butler watches Ashley goodbye , Melanie\ proposes to her . Although she does not love him , Scarlett dies from a bout of pneumonia and measles while serving in the Confederate Army 's mother sends her to the Hamilton to cheer her up , although the O\'Haras\ tells Scarlett 's return . Scarlett with Melanie again , now a blockade runner for the Confederacy victory and to raise money for the Confederate makes an inordinately large bid for Scarlett of Gettysburg 's town are killed . Scarlett while he is visiting on Christmas Day Army Campaign and her young house slave Prissy 's baby without medical assistance after she goes into premature labor . Afterwards , Scarlett to take her home to Tara , her baby , and Prissy and the group to make their own way back to Tara finds Tara and Pork learns that her mother has just died of typhoid fever and her father has become incompetent . With Tara troops and the fields untended , Scarlett work in the cotton fields , Scarlett\ , Ashley . When Scarlett . Unable to pay the taxes on Tara dupes her younger sister Suellen\ Kennedy got tired of waiting and married another suitor.\n\nFrank , Ashley and several other accomplices make a night raid on a shanty town after Scarlett 's death . With Frank\ proposes to Scarlett names Bonnie Blue , still pining for Ashley know that she wants no more children and that they will no longer share a bed.\n\nOne day at Frank\ and Ashley 's sister , India she eagerly spreads rumors . Later that evening , Rhett to attend a birthday party for Ashley of believing anything bad of her , Melanie 's side so that all know that she believes the gossip to be false . After returning home from the party , Scarlett downstairs drunk , and they argue about Ashley kisses Scarlett to the bedroom . The next day , Rhett a divorce , which she rejects , saying that it would be a disgrace . When Rhett , Scarlett dies while attempting to jump a fence with her pony.\n\nScarlett and Rhett , who has suffered complications arising from a new pregnancy , on her deathbed . As Scarlett , Rhett . Having realized that it was he she truly loved all along , and not Ashley pleads with Rhett rebuffs her and walks away into the morning fog , leaving her in tears on the staircase , vowing to one day win back his love.\n\nJiminy Cricket . Jiminy finishes work on a wooden marionette whom he names Pinocchio makes a wish on a star that Pinocchio Fairy to life , although he still remains a puppet . She informs him that if he proves himself brave , truthful , and unselfish , he will become a real boy , and assigns Jiminy is led astray by Honest John and his companion , Gideon , who convince him to join Stromboli\ 's objections . Pinocchio 's star attraction as a marionette who can sing and dance without strings . However , when Pinocchio locks him in a birdcage . Jiminy , and is unable to free him . The Blue Fairy why he was not at school . Jiminy to tell the truth , but instead he starts telling lies , which causes his nose to grow longer and longer . Pinocchio Fairy John meet a coachman who promises to pay them money if they can find naughty little boys for him to take to Pleasure Island Pinocchio Island , a delinquent boy . Without rules or authority to enforce their activity , Pinocchio 's dismay . Later discovers that the island hides a horrible curse : the boys brought to Pleasure Island runs back to warn Pinocchio has transformed into a donkey ; Pinocchio and Jiminy had ventured out to sea to save Pinocchio Island , and is now living in his belly . Determined to rescue his father , Pinocchio . Pinocchio as well , where he is reunited with Geppetto devises a scheme to make Monstro pulls Geppetto crashes into it . Geppetto , Cleo are washed up safely on a beach , but Pinocchio grieves over Pinocchio Cricket Fairy has proven himself brave , truthful , and unselfish . To reward him , the Blue Fairy , reversing the Pleasure Island awakens and reveals that he is alive and a real human boy , and everyone celebrates . Jiminy , and is rewarded with a solid gold badge that certifies him as an official conscience.\n\n '' Big John ( Clark Gable John ( Spencer Tracy Aldrich Morgan shows up with the sheriff to take back his property . The two oilmen team up and make enough money to partially pay Aldrich \'Betsy\ ( Claudette Colbert sweeps her off her feet ( without knowing that Sand considers her his girl ) and marries her . Sand accepts the situation , wanting Betsy quarrels with McMasters and they flip a coin for the entire oilfield . Betsy and needs her.\n\nEach man goes through booms and busts . Building on his renewed success as a wildcatter , McMasters York Compton Atwill 's adviser Karen Vanmeer Lamarr loses everything he has built up in South America at an oilmen\ 's convention , the two finally reconcile , and Sand is carrying on an affair with Karen 's marriage by offering to marry Karen tries to commit suicide by taking sleeping pills , Sand . Sand loses his costly battle with his former friend and goes broke . It is only when he asks McMasters to give his wife a divorce that the married man finally comes to his senses . Later , McMasters Antitrust Act and McMasters looking on . Aldrich , a poor young farmer from the rural area near Pall Mall , lives a hardscrabble existence in a community whose poverty and isolation leave them with a lifestyle hardly different from people of a century earlier . He is an exceptional marksman , but a ne\'er-do-well prone to drinking and fighting , which does not make things any easier for his long-suffering , widowed mother.\n\nAlvin\ 's farm is on rocky land high in the mountains , which barely supports him and his siblings . He meets a sweet-natured local girl , Gracie Williams , gives Alvin wins the final needed amount at a target-shooting contest , but discovers Tomkins 's romantic rival , Zeb Andrews had made . Alvin and Andrews is holding is struck by lightning , splitting the barrel in two and knocking him off his mule . Similar to the biblical conversion of Paul survives the lightning strike and undergoes a religious awakening when he joins a revival meeting at the nearby church , vowing never to get drunk or angry again . He makes amends with the men who cheated him out of the land , while Gracie enters World War is drafted into the army , he tries to avoid induction into the Army Gordon and killing . Major Buxton 's mind , citing sacrifices made by others throughout the history of the United a leave to go home and think it over . He promises York remains unconvinced.\n\nWhile York therefore unto Caesar 's ; and unto God 's . '' York 's hands.\n\nHis unit is shipped out to Europe Offensive 8 , 1918 . Pinned down by deadly machine gun fire , the lieutenant orders Sergeant Early to take some men and try to attack the machine gun nests from behind . York forces a captured officer at gunpoint to order the Germans still fighting in another section of the line to also surrender . He and the handful of other survivors end up with 132 prisoners . York of Honor asks him why he did what he did , York York City receives a ticker tape parade and a key to the city . He is impressed with the Waldorf-Astoria Cordell Hull mentions the bottomland he wanted and Hull rejects the offers , however , saying that he was not proud of what he did in the war , but it had to be done , and he will not profit from his fame . He tells Hull he wants to go home . He returns to Tennessee and his family . To his surprise , the people of his home state have bought him the bottomland farm he wanted and built him a house on the land.\n\nA doe gives birth to a fawn named Bambi Prince , a title currently held by Bambi\ , who helps to teach him to walk and speak . Bambi and a female fawn named Faline and inquisitive , Bambi briefly sees The Great Prince but does not realize that he is his father . As the great prince wanders uphill , he discovers the human hunter named `` Man is briefly separated from his mother during that scene but is escorted to her by the Great Prince 's first winter , he and Thumper hibernates . One day his mother takes him along to find food , when Man shows up again . As they escape his mother is shot and killed by the hunter , leaving the little fawn mournful and alone . Taking pity on his abandoned son , the Great Prince home as he reveals to him that he is his father . Next year , Bambi Owl and Flower himself encounters Faline , who attempts to force Faline . Bambi in battle and earn the rights to the doe\ 's affections.\n\nBambi is awakened shortly afterward by the smell of smoke , he follows it and discovers it leads to a hunter camp . Bambi has returned with more hunters . The two flee to safety , although Bambi in the turmoil and searches for her along the way . He soon finds her cornered by Man\ 's '' camp their campfire , unattended , spreads into the forest , resulting in a wildfire from which the forest residents flee in fear . Bambi , and the forest animals manage to reach shelter on a riverbank . The following spring , Faline 's watchful eye as the new Great Prince Miniver Garson , a fictional village outside London Thames ( Walter Pidgeon ( Christopher Severn ( Clare Sandars ( Richard Ney University Forbes , the cook ( Marie De Becker War II returns from the university and meets Carol Beldon Wright Beldon May Whitty Hall 's idealistic attitude to class differences with Carol\ proposes to Carol in front of his family at home , after his younger brother prods him to give a less romantic , but more honest , proposal . As the war comes closer to home , Vin Air Force volunteers to take his motorboat , the Starling evacuation.\n\nEarly one morning , Kay is still away , wanders down to the landing stage . She is startled to discover a wounded German pilot ( Helmut Dantine Reich returns home , exhausted , from Dunkirk.\n\nLady Beldon to try and convince her to talk Vin on account of her granddaughter\ 's comparative youth at age eighteen . Kay sixteen , in fact \xe2\x80\x94 when she married her late husband . Lady Beldon and Carol has now also become a Mrs Miniver . A is likely to be killed in action , but the short love will fill her life . Later and her family take refuge in their Anderson 's Adventures in Wonderland refers to as a `` lovely story '' . They barely survive as a bomb destroys part of Starlings Beldon Ballard Travers Miniver Rose Hall and Carol to join his squadron . On their journey home , they witness fighter planes in a dogfight . For safety , Kay realizes Carol . She dies a few minutes after they reach home . Kay returns from battle , he already knows the terrible news : Ironically , he is the survivor , and she the one who died.\n\nThe villagers assemble at the badly damaged church where their vicar affirms their determination in a powerful sermon : \n\nA solitary Lady Beldon moves to stand alongside her , united in shared grief , as the members of the congregation rise and stoically sing `` Onward fighters in the V-for-Victory formation heading out to face the enemy.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War Jordan Cooper during the pre-war period , fights in the International Brigades Franco\ is ordered to travel behind enemy lines and destroy a critical bridge with the aid of a band of local anti-fascist guerrillas . The bridge must be blown up to prevent enemy troops from traveling across it to respond to an upcoming offensive against the fascists.\n\nJordan meets an old man , Anselmo 's liaison with the local guerrilla fighters . Anselmo to a group of Republican . Jordan . Mar\xc3\xada\ has a strong sense of duty , which clashes with the unwillingness of the guerrilla leader Pablo develops a new-found lust for life which arises from his love for Mar\xc3\xada 's wife Pilar as the group leader and pledges the allegiance of the guerrillas to Jordan\ Sordo destroys Jordan\ , Pablo , Jordan , Jordan improvise an alternative method to explode the dynamite by using hand grenades . Jordan , and Mar\xc3\xada\xe2\x80\x94create and Anselmo his life when he is hit by a piece of debris from the exploding bridge . While the guerrillas are escaping on horseback , Jordan can not feel his legs and he knows that if his comrades stop to rescue him , they too will be captured or killed . He bids goodbye to Mar\xc3\xada machine gun , he waits until the horse-mounted fascist soldiers appear in his gun sights . He then pulls the trigger , firing a sweeping barrage at the oncoming soldiers . The film ends with Jordan gun directly at the camera.\n\nIn World War Jones Murphy Army Yip Yaphank : instead of the finale , the troops march up the aisles through the audience , out the theater\ 's main entrance and into a convoy of waiting trucks . Among the teary , last-minute goodbyes Jones ( Rosemary DeCamp , several of the soldiers in the production are killed or wounded by shrapnel from a German artillery barrage . Jones . McGee Hale ) and Pvt Dibble Butterworth War II . Jerry\ ( Ronald Reagan shortly after Pearl Harbor Dibble Leslie States and eventually plays Washington , in front of President Roosevelt Young Cross \xe2\x80\x9cChuck\xe2\x80\x9d O\xe2\x80\x99Malley St. Louis York City Dominic\xe2\x80\x99s Church.\n\nOn gets into a series of mishaps ; his informal appearance and attitude make a poor impression with the elder pastor , Father Fitzgibbon is further put off by O\xe2\x80\x99Malley\xe2\x80\x99s Timmy O\xe2\x80\x99Dowd and O\'Dowd present , it is revealed that O\xe2\x80\x99Malley is to remain as pastor . To spare Fitzgibbon\xe2\x80\x99s is simply his assistant.\n\nA series of events highlights the difference between O\xe2\x80\x99Malley styles , as they deal with events like a parishioner being evicted and a young woman named Carol James and Fitzgibbon Scaponi is inclined to look the other way , siding with the boys because of their frequent church attendance . O\xe2\x80\x99Malley and eventually convincing the boys to become a church choir.\n\nThe noise of the practicing choir annoys Fitzgibbon to be transferred away . In the course of the conversation , Fitzgibbon in charge of the parish . To avoid an uncomfortable situation , instead of making his initial request , Fitzgibbon in charge , and then , resigned to his fate of losing control over the church , he informs O\xe2\x80\x99Malley then runs away , leading to a search . He returns late at night , and as O\xe2\x80\x99Malley long-put-off desire to go to Ireland as a young priest to come to America puts Fitzgibbon Ra Loo Ra Loo Ral\xe2\x80\x9d.\n\nO\'Malley Tuffel now has a successful career with the Metropolitan Opera Linden , the two discuss their past , and she learns that her world travels with a previous opera company caused her to miss his letter explaining he had entered the priesthood.\n\nO\'Malley next pays a visit to Carol Haines Jr. Haines Sr. describes to the young couple his calling in life to \xe2\x80\x9cgo his way , \xe2\x80\x9d Way which he wrote on this theme.\n\nJenny visits O\xe2\x80\x99Malley She , O\'Malley O\xe2\x80\x99Dowd , perform \xe2\x80\x9cGoing My Way\xe2\x80\x9d with the choir and a full orchestra , then sell the rights to the song , thereby saving the church from its financial woes . The plan fails , as the music executive brought on to hear the song does not believe it will sell . The choir decides to make the most of its opportunity on the grand stage , and sings another song , `` Swinging on a Star '' . The executive overhears the song and decides to buy it , providing enough money to pay off the church mortgage.\n\nWith the church affairs in order , O\xe2\x80\x99Malley go on a golf course together . Just prepares to move on to a new assignment from the bishop . He leaves O\xe2\x80\x99Dowd new assistant , putting Tony Scaponi Eve 's farewell . As a going-away present , O\xe2\x80\x99Malley mother from Ireland O\xe2\x80\x99Malley tells the story of Joan Blake Carlson Griffin Lowell , she has sex with him . The girl requests `` hygiene books '' from her mother Sarah Blake Austin Blake Eldredge Blackburn Albright blames her mother for the problem , and accuses her of `` neglect [ ing ] the sacred duty of telling their children the real truth . '' Only then is the girl able to confront her mother . [ 2 ] \n\nThe and Dad is believed to have had a number of endings , although most typically concluded with the birth of the girl\ 's child , sometimes stillborn and other times put up for adoption . [ 7 ] [ 8 ] \n\nThe Charles '' O\'Malley Crosby Mary\ is to recommend whether or not the school should be closed and the children sent to another school with modern facilities ; but the sisters feel that God P. Bogardus Travers O\'Malley Superior Benedict Bergman Tyler ( Joan Carroll NY Sleeper Benedict O\'Malley , and struggles to understand the reasons for the path set out for her . Right before Sister Benedict O\'Malley States , specifically in the state of Georgia . Although sometimes misinterpreted as taking place before the American Civil War Era [ 6 ] [ 8 ] Harris\ Remus Civil War himself , born in 1848 , was a racial reconciliation activist writer and journalist of the Reconstruction Era Era : clothing is in the newer late-Victorian style ; Uncle Remus ( Bobby Driscoll plantation with his parents , John Sr. Rolf ( Ruth Warrick Watson to continue his controversial editorship in the city\ 's newspaper . Johnny with only a bindle.\n\nAs Johnny Remus Baskett Rabbit was missing , and some plantation residents are looking for him . Johnny Remus Remus Remus the traditional African-American folktale , `` Br\'er Rabbit Earns a Minute Rabbit Lee Fox Bear Baskett Stewart takes the advice and changes his mind about leaving the plantation , letting Uncle Remus ( Glenn Leedy Favers Patten gives Johnny ( Gene Holland ( George Nokes 's mother refuses to let him take care of the puppy , so he takes the dog to Uncle Remus Remus and his friends with the fable of Br\'er Rabbit , stressing that people shouldn\'t get involved with something they have no business with in the first place . Johnny Rabbit Fox Brothers not to tell their mother ( Mary Field had fooled them . In an act of revenge , they tell Sally about the dog . She becomes upset that Johnny Remus Remus Remus picks up Ginny and Jake into a mud puddle . With her dress ruined , Ginny begins fighting with the boys , but their fight is broken up by Uncle Remus and Jake runs off to comfort Ginny Remus Rabbit becomes angry at Johnny Remus Remus . Johnny calls for Uncle Remus Remus Rabbit Place , and Toby 's returned puppy runs alongside them . Uncle Remus Rabbit Remus War II Derry Parrish Stephenson City is returning from Europe Air Force was a petty officer in the Seventh Fleet served with the 25th Infantry . All three have trouble adjusting to civilian life.\n\nAl is a banker with a comfortable home and a loving family : wife Milly , and high school student son Rob President approves an unsecured loan to a young Navy expounds that the bank ( and America had met Marie was overseas . Marie , before joining the Navy and his parents now have trouble dealing with his disability . He does not want to burden Wilma dislikes Marie 's marriage , but they tell her that their own marriage overcame similar problems . Concerned , Al stop seeing his daughter . Fred , Fred encourages Homer , offering to be his best man.\n\nWilma visits Homer City bluntly demonstrates to her how hard life with him would be . When Wilma reconsiders.\n\nFred discovers his wife with another veteran . After complaining to Fred tells him that she is getting a divorce . Fred Flying Cross Doolittle books space on the first outbound aircraft , without regard for the destination . While waiting , he wanders into a vast aircraft boneyard . Inside the nose of a B-17 persuades the man to hire him.\n\nPeople have gathered for the wedding of Homer . Fred 's best man . While the vows are exchanged , Fred glance across at one another . At the conclusion everyone gathers around the newlyweds . Still gazing over at Peggy walks across the room , takes her in his arms and kisses her . He asks if she understands how things will be for them , that it could take years before they can get a life established . All the while Peggy , and then kisses him again.\n\nPearl Chavez Jones Chavez Marshall Losch Blackmer Chavez to live with his second cousin and old sweetheart , Laura Belle ) .\n\nArriving by stagecoach , Pearl McCanles Cotten Belle\ , their enormous cattle ranch . The gentle and gracious Laura Belle Jackson McCanles Barrymore `` a half-breed '' and jealously despises Pearl\ ( Gregory Peck . He expresses his interest in Pearl Belle Jubal Crabbe '' ( Walter Huston on how to avoid the evils of temptation . Pearl 's aggressive advances one night , Pearl , meanwhile , is ostracized by his father and no longer welcome at the ranch after siding with railroad men , headed by Mr. Langford Kruger 's personal interests . Jesse but he leaves for Austin Langford Tetzel 's daughter.\n\nOffended when Lewt takes up with Sam Pierce Bickford picks a fight with Pierce can belong only to him . Lewt finds time to derail a train and occasionally drop by the ranch late at night and press his attentions on Pearl to the law , hiding him in her room . Afterward 's health takes a turn for the worse and the Senator returns to visit but is too late ; his mother is dead . The Senator , their family feud finally resulting in a showdown . Lewt stands his ground without attempting to pick it up . Jesse will eventually be hanged as a murderer , and Lewt Senator\ Smoot Carey 's wound is not mortal and the old man softens up towards his son . A livid Pearl is going to survive . When Helen to leave Spanish Bit . Pearl hands , Sid McKay intends to come after Jesse in the desert , where they die in each other\ 's arms.\n\nThe film begins in 1644 during the English Civil War pursuing a Cavalier\ , on the doorstep of a farming cottage . The roundheads soon catch up with the carriage and kill all the passengers while the farmers discover and decide to adopt Amber.\n\nThe Cromwell .The rejoice and celebrate the return of the monarchy . However the small rural towns and villages remain strictly puritanical.\n\nSixteen years after being abandoned in a small rural village , we see that Amber Darnell Carlton Wilde to let her come with him to London 's friend Almsbury Greene refuses her , while Almsbury once again tries to convince Bruce , which he refuses , before they share a kiss.\n\nBruce and Almsbury to seek an audience with the king but are turned away . Barbara Villiers and Almsbury tavern , they see that Amber . Bruce pampers Amber sees Barbara Villiers Draper is distraught at the thought of Bruce from warning Bruce with his mistress and later summons him to court.\n\nNot wanting his friend to face the king\ 's wrath alone , Almsbury that very night . Bruce return to the tavern to see Amber plans on leaving before Amber helps him pack , despite telling Bruce loves him and it would be cruel.\n\nThe next morning Amber packing up his belongings and returning to Almsbury Hall explains that the king gave him back his lands and gave Bruce races into Bruce\ tries to convince Amber no matter what . Almsbury leaves her and gives her money from Bruce is quickly conned out of her money , put in debt and sent to Newgate Prison Prison discovers she\ 's pregnant with Bruce\ Jack Mallet Redcap\ Revere gives birth to a son.\n\nAmber soon begins to make a living luring fops into alleyways where Black Jack Jack flees . She hides inside a house where she is discovered by Captain Rex Morgan Langan gets her work as an actress to save her from being sent to Tyburn is working as an actress , the Earl shows an interest in Amber returns to London that Bruce Morgan but she rejects him because she still loves Bruce II returns and Amber finds Bruce together and challenges Bruce is his fiance . Bruce to end the duel . Morgan winds up killing him . He blames Amber decides to marry the elderly widowed Earl . This will make her a countess , which she hopes will interest Bruce.\n\nShe 's ship has docked in London Plague recovers and after discovering Amber , leaves Amber great fire hits London II , but Radcliffe fights with Radcliffe servant hits Radcliff becomes Charles\ with his new wife Corinna . Amber to dine with her and Charles II will seduce her . Charles to leave . Charles , realising that she still loves Bruce.\n\nBruce asks the son to decide , expecting him to want to stay with his mother . However the son is keen to go to Virginia offers Amber watches heartbroken as Bruce Swanson\ , a Novel Conspiracy '' Hale Goddard . There is a bidding competition between Captain Christopher Holden Cooper Garth Da Silva wins . He then sets her free . Unfortunately , Garth and takes her to the western frontier , where he is involved in illegal arms sales to the Native , Holden ; he also has further confrontations with Garth Mazurki star Don Hewes Astaire presents for his sweetheart ( `` Happy Easter rabbit he wants and choose a set of drums ( `` Drum Crazy Hale Miller ( Peter Lawford are no longer a team and makes it obvious that she is attracted to Johnny drowns his sorrow at a bar , where he brags that he can make a star of the next dancer he meets . He picks one of the girls performing on stage , Hannah Brown Garland , teaching her to dance the same way , buying her dresses in a similar style and giving her an `` exotic '' stage name , `` Juanita Faces Need Beautiful Clothes , who is instantly attracted to her and sings `` A Fella . After he tries - unsuccessfully - to reunite Nadine by inviting them to lunch and then leaving them alone , she tells him her friends are laughing because Hannah sing `` I Love a Piano & Hewes '' , `` The Ragtime Violin Choo-Choo Leaves ' '' .\n\nAt an audition for Ziegfeld Follies and Don meet Nadine realizes that Nadine 's former dancing partner and demands to know if they were in love . Later meets Hannah offer , believing that she and Nadine arrives to take Hannah . They continue to have a close friendship.\n\nNadine\ 's show opens ( `` Shakin\ Away is in the audience . When he and Hannah ( `` Steppin\ Baby 're a Couple '' ) , in which he and Hannah is performing . The audience gives them a rousing ovation as they arrive , much to Nadine\ on the Magazine Cover perform one of their old numbers with her for old times\ ' sake - `` It Only Happens When I Dance With You ( Reprise ) '' . When he reluctantly agrees , Hannah , and has succeeded.\n\nHannah goes to the bar where she and Don Luck '' ) . When she returns to her apartment , she finds Don and says he\ 'll wait all night for her to forgive him , but just before she opens the door , he is evicted by the house detective . The next morning Hannah about her and Don\ for their date at the Easter 's apartment , with no cards . Hannah parade , photographers take their picture , echoing the film\ 's opening with Nadine Parade Lermontov Garden Opera House is in attendance to hear the ballet score Heart , composed by his teacher , Professor Palmer present is Victoria \'Vicky\ , a young , unknown dancer from an aristocratic background , with her aunt , Lady Neston of Fire Palmer Neston\ Lermontov and Vicki to explain the circumstances behind Heart , but then tries to retrieve the letter . Lermontov\ thwarts all attempts by Julian to gain entry to Lermontov\ gives Julian has seen it , except that Lermontov Montague ' ) . Lermontov was the true composer of Heart and Vicky Lermontov dances with Ballet Rambert Lake Theatre Hill Gate Rambert realises her potential and invites Vicky Lermontov and Monte Carlo Shoes is to provide the music.\n\nThe Red Shoes revitalizes the company\ 's repertoire with Vicky and Julian . Lermontov ; he resents the romance between her and Julian after learning of it . The impresario fires Julian leaves the company with him . They marry and live in London receives a visit from Lermontov Shoes Garden arrives ; he and Julian contend for Vicky\ between her love for Julian and her need to dance , she eventually chooses the latter.\n\nJulian , realising that he has lost her , leaves for the railway station ; Lermontov and tries to turn her attention to the evening\ 's performance . Vicky jumps , she is wearing the red shoes which we saw her wearing as she is preparing in her dressing room , despite the fact that in the performance her character does not put them on until part way through the ballet . Powell themselves discussed this situation [ 5 ] and it has been much discussed since . [ 6 ] Powell to be wearing the red shoes at that point because if she is not wearing them , it takes away the ambiguity over why she died . [ 5 ] \n\nShaken appears before the audience to announce that , `` Miss Page Shoes would have been.\n\nWhile lying close to death on a stretcher , Vicky Shoes ( Olivia de Havilland Hill State Hospital ( Mark Stevens ( Leo Genn Van Kensdelaerik '' Dr. Kik and Robert . He worked for a publisher who rejected her writing , and they bumped into each other again in the cafeteria . Occasionally she continued to drop by the cafeteria so they get to know each other.\n\nDespite their blossoming romance , Virginia moves to New York . After she provides a flimsy excuse for her absence and departure , they pick up where they left off , though she remains evasive and avoids his desire for marriage . Eventually , Virginia 7 , but Virginia and snaps when Robert Kik Kik ( Leif Erickson moves to the lowest level ( One ) , where she encounters Nurse Davis Craig is jealous of Dr. Kik\ , which she sees as excessive . Nurse Davis into an outburst which results in Virginia One into the `` snake pit , '' where patients considered beyond help are simply placed together in a large padded cell and abandoned . Dr. Kik returned to Level Davis\ Kik\ 's mental state . Over time , Virginia learns as much as she does in therapy.\n\nSamson , a Danite Hebrew vows from birth by his mother Hazelelponit woman named Semadar loses a bet with his wedding guests because of Semadar searches for Semadar married her to a Philistine left the wedding to pay his debt . A fight breaks out between Samson , which results in the death of Semadar . Samson of Gaza , with the purpose of having Samson 's plan works , and frustrated Danites to the Philistines , much to the joy of Delilah 's younger sister . Samson Ahtur , and a regiment of Philistine route back to Gaza decides to taunt Samson rips apart his chains and ropes and begins to combat the Philistines 's war chariot and using the jawbone of an ass to club the Philistine at the hands of Samson . The Saran . Delilah , thus having him reveal the secret of his strength and then deliver him for punishment . Her plan works ; she cuts his hair , which he feels gives him his strength . To fully neutralize him , Samson for the entertainment of the Philistines and the Saran has been in love with Samson , and his blindness and torture make her feel deep remorse over her betrayal . She initially had betrayed him because she wanted to avenge the deaths of her father and sister , which she thought were caused `` because of Samson wielding a whip which he uses to be guided by her to the temple of Dagon\ to flee , but she remains , unseen by him , as he pushes the pillars apart . The pillars give way and the temple collapses , burying Samson , and all the Philistines and Miriam Hebrew 's passing.\n\nCinderella is living a dissatisfying life , having lost both parents at a young age , and being forced to work as a scullery maid in her own ch\xc3\xa2teau . Her stepmother , Lady Tremaine 's beauty . Additionally her two stepsisters Drizella , cruelly take advantage of her . In spite of this , Cinderella is frustrated that his son , the Prince Duke , requesting every eligible maiden attend . Upon receiving notice of the ball , Lady Tremaine go if she finishes her chores and can find a suitable dress to wear.\n\nCinderella finds a gown that belonged to her mother and decides to refashion it for the ball , but her stepfamily impedes this by giving her extra chores . Cinderella\ and Gus and Anastasia comes downstairs wearing the dress , the stepsisters are upset when they realize Cinderella , Cinderella Godmother will go to the ball , the Fairy Godmother 's horse , Major , into a footman , before turning Cinderella\ leaves for the ball , the Fairy Godmother rejects every girl until he sees Cinderella hears the clock start to chime midnight and flees . As she leaves the castle , one of her slippers falls off . The palace guards give chase as Cinderella Duke that Cinderella wishes to marry her . The lost glass slipper is the only piece of evidence . The King 's household , Lady Tremaine humming the waltz played at the ball . Realizing that Cinderella Tremaine arrives at the ch\xc3\xa2teau , and Jaq steal the key from Lady Tremaine\ and Drizella Tremaine\ , ambushes the mice , but Bruno . As the Duke appears and asks to try on the slipper . Knowing it will fit , Lady Tremaine the slipper , causing it to shatter on the floor . Much to her horror , Cinderella with the other slipper , which fits perfectly . The film ends with a now-married Prince and Cinderella ( Stewart Granger Curtis Kerr Goode Carlson interior while searching for the legendary titular mines . They have a copy of the map he used . A ( Siriaque has no use for women on a safari , but during the long and grueling journey , he and Elizabeth Brun Haas . However , when Allan Brun , killing his faithful right-hand man Khiva ) , instead . Allan Brun . They discover that their companion is royalty ; he has returned to attempt to dethrone the evil King Twala ) . Umbopa , Elizabeth travel to a tense meeting with Twala kills a would-be attacker , temporarily quelling the natives.\n\nThe king\ 's advisor , Gagool ) , communicates that they have seen Curtis 's husband . While they are distracted by this discovery , Gagool and his followers arrive.\n\nUmbopa\ 's people have an unusual method of deciding the kingship . The two claimants duel to the death . Despite cheating by one of Twala\ wins . Afterwards , he provides an escort for his friends\ ' return trip.\n\nThe story , set in ancient Rome Nero\ , combines both historical and fictional events and characters , and compresses the key events of that period into the space of only a few weeks . Its main theme is the Roman Empire\xe2\x80\x99s and persecution of Christians in the final years of the Julio-Claudian line . Unlike his illustrious and powerful predecessor , Emperor Claudius proved corrupt and destructive , and his actions eventually threatened to destroy Rome\ ( Robert Taylor Gemina and Gaul ( Deborah Kerr , and as a result he finds himself increasingly drawn to her religion . Though she grew up as the foster daughter of Aulus Plautius Aylmer general , Lygia . Petronius Genn ' uncle , persuades Nero Ustinov , Nero\ burns Rome sets out to rescue Lygia arrests them , along with all the other Christians , and condemns them to be slaughtered in his Circus : some are killed by lions . Petronius 's most trusted advisor , warns him that the Christians will be celebrated as martyrs , but he can not change the emperor\ 's mind . Then , tired of Nero\ composes a letter to Nero ( Finlay Currie in response to a sign from the Lord and Lygia prisons . Peter 's Praetorian Guard Laffan 's wife , who lusts after Marcus is tied to a stake in the Circus 's bodyguard Ursus Baer from being gored to death . Marcus is able to topple the bull and break its neck . Massively impressed by Ursus\ to spare the couple . He refuses to do so , even after four of his courtiers , Seneca Hannen ( D.A ) , poet Lucan Varelli ( Geoffrey Dunn then breaks free of his bonds , leaps into the arena , and frees Lygia accuses Nero and announces that General Galba , and hails him as new Emperor crowd revolts , now firmly believing that Nero . Nero , blaming her for inciting him to scapegoat the Christians . Then Acte Crutchley 's discarded mistress who is still in love with him , appears and offers him a dagger to end his own life before the mob storming the palace kills him . Nero can not do it , so Acte and Ursus for Marcus\ . By the roadside , Peter\ , has sprouted blossoms . A radiant light appears and a chorus intones , `` I am the way , the truth , and the life , '' words reported to have been spoken by Jesus 14:6 , New Testament film begins in black-and-white and in standard 4:3 aspect ratio , as travel writer and newscaster Lowell Thomas speaks the words `` This is Cinerama 2.65:1 aspect ratio and color as a series of vignettes , narrated by Thomas ' Playland Scala . Also seen are views of Niagara Falls Boys\ ; scenes of the canals of Venice ; a bullfight in Spain scene '' from A\xc3\xafda Gardens , filmed from the nose of a low flying B-25 Tabernacle Choir the Beautiful , Come Ye Saints Hymn . [ 3 ] \n\nThe producers were Lowell Thomas C. Cooper L. Bendick ( and an uncredited Mike Todd ) . Cooper Kong.\n\n Piper Top is constantly watching for one frayed rope , one weak link , or one trace of fear.\n\n '' A Tops \xe2\x80\x94 Show ! `` \n\nIn London and Mary Darling\ and Michael Pan . George has gotten too old to continue staying in the nursery with them . That night , they are visited in the nursery by Peter Pan Bell Land.\n\nA Land Hook Smee boldly plots to take revenge upon Peter Pan 's hand and is eager to taste the rest of him . The crew\ 's restlessness is interrupted by the arrival of Peter . Tinker Bell 's attention to Wendy Boys has ordered them to shoot down Wendy Bell\ banishes her . John set off with the Lost Boys Lily.\n\nMeanwhile takes Wendy , but flee in terror at the sight of Hook and Wendy and Smee Lily 's hideout . Peter free her , and Peter then plots to take advantage of Tinker Bell\ , tricking her into revealing the location of Peter\ and her brothers eventually grow homesick and plan to return home . They invite Peter Boys and be adopted by the Darling Boys is so set against growing up that he refuses , presumptuously thinking that they will all return shortly . The pirates lie in wait and capture the Lost Boys . Tinker Bell as it explodes.\n\nPeter rescues Tinker Bell engages Hook and his crew flee , with the crocodile in hot pursuit . Peter Bell\ with the children aboard . However , the Lost Boys Land . George Darling not in her bed , but sleeping at the open window . Wendy , who has softened his position about Wendy Rome , Capri ( in the time period stretching from 32 to 38 AD ( Jean Simmons Caligula Gallio Burton was in Cana . At that time , Marcellus that Caligula , son of an important Roman Thatcher empire . Marcellus is notoriously known as a ladies\xe2\x80\x99 man , but is captivated by the reappearance of his childhood sweetheart , Diana Tiberius is unofficially pledged in marriage to Tiberius\ a slave market Marcellus for a defiant Greek slave , Demetrius Mature issues orders for Marcellus in Palestine.\n\nMarcellus released and orders him to go on his own to the Gallio waiting for him when he arrives . Unofficially , Marcellus , but Demetrius by being his servant . Demetrius to Palestine but , before the galley sails , Diana , pledging her love for him and her intention to intercede on his behalf with Tiberius and asks her to make the emperor promise not to give her in marriage to Caligula.\n\nMarcellus with the centurion Paulus Morrow 's triumphal entry on Palm Sunday locks eyes with Jesus Pilate Boone , who informs him that the emperor has sent for him . Before Marcellus soldiers assigned to crucify Jesus in a dice game and is told it will be a reminder of Marcellus\ , Marcellus and tears the robe off . In a fit of rage , Demetrius and the Roman Empire at Capri ' followers . At Diana\ leaves her free to marry Marcellus believes Marcellus , seeking to ingratiate himself with Justus Jagger , and the Christian 's miraculously healed grandson and in the paralytic Miriam.\n\nMarcellus alone in an inn and demands that he destroy the robe , believing it has cursed him into madness . Demetrius of what he did , and it is his guilt over the killing of an innocent man that has caused him to become so troubled.\n\nDemetrius gives the robe to Marcellus calls the villagers together and begins to introduce Peter soldiers . Marcellus informs him that his orders are no longer valid ; Tiberius is emperor . Marcellus informs Paulus prevails . Rather than killing Paulus hurls his sword into a tree . Paulus , humiliated by his defeat , orders the soldiers to leave.\n\nPeter invites Marcellus and him as missionaries . Marcellus tells him of his own denial of Jesus confesses his role in Jesus\ points out to him that Jesus pledges his life to Jesus , where they must proceed `` under cover '' as Caligula , Caligula from her retreat at the Gallio has become a traitor to Rome by becoming a Christian . He takes her to the guard room where a captured Demetrius runs out of the palace to Marcipor Leonard family slave , who is secretly Christian . Diana , and so she gets Marcipor are reunited , and Marcellus helps Marcellus comes to Gallio has been taken , and heals him . Caligula to him alive to stand trial by the end of the day.\n\nAfter witnessing Peter\ , the physician attending Demetrius ' father disowns him as an enemy of Rome , but when Marcellus can escape , he is captured and put on trial.\n\nCaligula makes Diana 's trial . Marcellus admits to being a Christian ; however , he denies the charge that Christians are plotting against the state . Marcellus tries to show Caligula as he tries to hand the robe to Caligula refuses to touch it , as he considers it to be `` bewitched '' .\n\nCaligula condemns Marcellus then accepts Christ , the man she considers to be her husband , in His Kingdom ) . She also denounces Caligula to die alongside Marcellus is acknowledged by his repentant father , and Diana B '' Jefferies ) is confined to a wheelchair in his Greenwich Village Torso Lonelyhearts Thorwald ) , a traveling jewelry salesman with a bedridden wife.\n\nJeff\ 's sophisticated , beautiful socialite girlfriend , Lisa Fremont Kelly ( Thelma Ritter to settle down and marry Lisa is reluctant.\n\nOne night during a thunderstorm , Jeff leaving his apartment . Thorwald notices that Thorwald\ cleaning a large knife and handsaw . Later ties a large trunk with heavy rope and has moving men haul it away . Jeff and with Stella.\n\nJeff has murdered his wife . Jeff Doyle Corey York City Police finds nothing suspicious ; apparently , Mrs. Thorwald , whose cigar can be seen glowing as he sits quietly in his dark apartment.\n\nCertain that Thorwald asks Lisa can watch his reaction when he reads it . Then , as a pretext to get Thorwald telephones him and arranges a meeting at a bar . He believes Thorwald leaves , Lisa dig up the flowers ; they find nothing.\n\nMuch to Jeff\ then climbs the fire escape to Thorwald\ returns and grabs Lisa calls the police , who arrive in time to save her by arresting her . Jeff has her hands behind her back , wiggling her finger with Mrs. Thorwald\ notices this , and , realizing that she is signaling to someone , he sees Jeff and leaves an urgent message . Stella . When his phone rings , Jeff , and says that the suspect has left the apartment . When no one answers , Jeff himself had called , and is heading over to confront him . When Thorwald repeatedly sets off his camera flashbulbs , temporarily blinding him . However , Thorwald and manages to push him out of the open window , as Jeff officers enter the apartment as he falls to the ground ; other officers have run over to break his fall . Thorwald rests peacefully in his wheelchair , now with casts on both legs . The lonely neighbor is chatting with the pianist in his apartment , the dancer\ 's lover returns home from the army , the couple whose dog was killed have a new dog , and the newly married couple are bickering.\n\nLisa reclines on the daybed in Jeff\ Himalayas falls asleep , Lisa Eve , two World War II U.S. Army entertainer , Captain Bob Wallace Crosby First Class Phil Davis Kaye ( `` White Christmas General Thomas F. Waverly Jagger Man is too busy shouting orders to notice . Phil later visits Phil offers a favor to repay the debt , Phil back in New York City 's heroism , Bob and Phil , eventually becoming successful producers ( `` Hi Hup Wave Skies , the dog-faced boy , '' their mess sergeant from the war , asking them to look at an act that his two sisters are doing.\n\nWhen they go to the club to watch the act ( `` Sisters notices that Bob ( Rosemary Clooney has eyes for her sister , Judy ) . Betty join Bob at their table , and Phil , so that Bob can get to know each other . Phil hit it off ( `` The Best Things Happen 're Dancing and Betty thinks that everyone has an angle in show business.\n\nJudy and Betty Inn Tree , where they are booked to perform over the holidays . Due gives the sisters his and Bob\ and Phil is extremely upset that they have to stay up all night in the club car on their way to NYC and Judy ( `` Snow Tree and Phil Waverly has invested all of his savings into the lodge , which is in danger of failing because there\ 's no snow and thus no guests . To bring business to the inn , Bob bring the entire cast and crew of their musical Playing Around and Judy Number and Betty\ Your Blessings '' ) and they spend a good deal of time together . Meanwhile , Bob 's request to rejoin the army has been rejected . He decides to prove to the General '' ) Bob Harrison Grant to come to the inn on Christmas Eve suggests they go all out and put the show on national television to generate free advertising for Wallace , but Bob to Bob Allen Wickes 's rejection of the idea.\n\nMistakenly believing that her beloved boss will be portrayed as a pitiable figure in a nationwide broadcast , Emma . The misunderstanding causes Betty . While this is happening , Judy will never take on a serious relationship until Judy to announce a phony engagement , but the plan backfires when Betty York City is taken care of.\n\nAfter rehearsals are complete ( `` Abraham Number and Judy that the engagement was phony . Bob 's coldness , goes to New York Harrison Show to come back . Bob 's new act ( `` Love '' ) and reveals the truth about the engagement , and Betty Harrison , Phil so he won\'t see the broadcast of Bob\ invites veterans of the 151st Division Tree , on Christmas Eve You Do with a General catches Bob\ in time for the Christmas Eve . The whole division comes into Pine Tree enters the lodge , he is greeted by his former division , who sing a rousing chorus of `` The Old , I Wish I Was '' ) ends , he learns that snow is finally falling.\n\nIn the finale , Bob declare their love for one another , as do Phil . The background of the set is removed to show the snow falling , and Bob , Phil perform `` white Christmas your days be merry and bright ; and may all your Christmases be white . `` \n\nIn 1868 , rumors of a sea monster attacking ships in the Pacific Ocean States invites Professor Pierre M. Aronnax , onto a Navy Land.\n\nAfter and Aronnax goes in after Aronnax finds a large viewport and witnesses an underwater funeral.\n\nNed , Aronnax attempt to leave in their lifeboat , but the submarine crew stops the castaways . The captain introduces himself as Nemo . He returns Ned to the deck while offering Aronnax proves willing to die with his companions , Nemo and Conseil Penthe was a prisoner there , as were many of his crew . The prisoners are loading a munitions ship . The Nautilus rams it , destroying its cargo and killing the crew . An anguished Nemo that his actions have saved thousands from death in war ; he also discloses that this `` hated nation '' tortured his wife and son to death while attempting to force him to reveal the secrets of his work . Ned 's secret island base , Vulcania Guinea becomes stranded on a reef . Ned allows him to go ashore with Conseil goes off alone to explore avenues of escape . While drinking from a pool , he sees human skulls on stakes . Ned , and they row away , pursued by cannibals . Aboard is furious with Ned , which descends into the depths , where it attracts a giant squid . After a similar electric charge fails to repel the monster , Nemo is caught in one of its tentacles . Ned from drowning . Nemo nears Vulcania finds the island surrounded by warships whose marines are converging on his base . As Nemo tries to identify himself as the author of the bottled messages . Aronnax will destroy all evidence of his discoveries . Nemo 's deck from a slug to the back . After navigating the submarine away from Vulcania announces he will be `` taking the Nautilus , and Ned 's crew also retreat to their cabins at Nemo\ escapes and manages to surface the Nautilus staggers to his salon viewport , watching his beloved sea as he dies.\n\nAronnax tries retrieving his detailed journal , but the urgency of their escape obliges Ned explode , and Ned for hitting him . As the Nautilus 's last words to Aronnax 's good time '' .\n\nOn Christmas town , Jim Dear Spaniel . Lady , a Scottish terrier , and Trusty lives on his own , dining on scraps from Tony\ ( a Pekingese ) and Bull is saddened after her owners begin treating her rather coldly . Jock visit her and determine that their change in behavior is due to Darling expecting a baby . While Jock try to explain what a baby is , Tramp and Trusty leaves , he reminds Lady that `` when a baby moves in , a dog moves out . `` \n\nEventually , the baby arrives and the couple introduces Lady becomes very fond and protective . Soon after , Jim Dear leave for a trip , with their Aunt Sarah Sarah\ and Am attacked them . Aunt Sarah to a pet shop to get a muzzle . Terrified flees , only to be pursued by a trio of stray dogs . Tramp , Tramp how he lives `` footloose and collar-free '' , eventually leading into a candlelit dinner at Tony\ , but she chooses to return home in order to watch over the baby . Tramp back home , but when Tramp is captured by the dog catcher and brought to the local dog pound . While at the pound , the other dogs ( including Peg , who have been caught ) reveal to Lady that Tramp Sarah visit to comfort Lady arrives to apologize , Lady sadly leaves , but immediately thereafter a rat sneaks into the house . Lady sees the rat and barks frantically at it , but Aunt Sarah hears her barking and rushes back , entering the house and cornering the rat in the nursery . Lady inadvertently knocks over the baby\ 's crib before ultimately killing the rat . The commotion alerts Aunt Sarah in a closet and locks Lady away . Jim Dear return home as the dog catcher departs , and when they release Lady and Trusty Dear , and she reunites with Tramp howling mournfully.\n\nThat Christmas has been adopted into the family , and he and Lady having given birth to a litter of four puppies ( three daughters who look identical to Lady ) . Jock , who is still alive and merely suffered a broken leg , which is still healing . Thanks to the puppies , Trusty War II States Navy ( also called \xe2\x80\x9cThe Bucket\xe2\x80\x9d Ocean ( junior grade ) Douglas A '' Roberts Fonda Commander Morton Cagney repeatedly requests a transfer . Morton shares quarters with Ensign Frank Thurlowe Pulver Lemmon spends most of his time idling in his bunk and avoids the captain at all costs , so much so , that Morton is part of the crew . Once discovered , Pulver despite bold ideas for revenge expressed to the crew.\n\nRoberts surreptitiously requests and is granted crew liberty from one of Morton\xe2\x80\x99s 's crew for meeting a difficult resupply schedule . The liberty is supposed to be at their next resupply stop , but when the ship reaches an idyllic South Pacific denies the crew their much-needed shore leave . In private , Morton 's chances of promotion . Morton 's rules , and never revealing what has made him change his attitude , Morton is reprimanded by the port captain and ordered to leave port immediately . Morton new strictness . Morton is trying to get a promotion . When a crew member informs Roberts policy which might assist him in getting a transfer despite the captain\ 's opposition , Roberts victory in Europe further , knowing the war may end soon without his ever seeing combat . Inspired by a patriotic radio speech celebrating VE Day throws Morton\ is the only person aboard with the nerve to do it . Morton later , Roberts '' ( William Powell ' friend , confides to him that the crew risked court-martial by submitting a transfer request with Morton\ , for `` action against the enemy '' .\n\nSeveral weeks later , Pulver , who speaks enthusiastically about his new assignment aboard the destroyer USS Livingston of Okinawa than the Medal . The second letter is from a college classmate of Pulver\ , which reveals that Roberts throws the captain\xe2\x80\x99s replacement palm tree overboard . He then marches into Morton\ has cancelled the showing of a film that night . Morton I of Egypt males . Yoshebel . Bithiah 's daughter , finds the basket and decides to adopt the boy even though her servant , Memnet . Bithiah Moses and establishing an alliance . Moses and princess Nefretiri . While working on the building of a city for Pharaoh Sethi\ meets the stonecutter Joshua God saves an elderly woman from being crushed not knowing that she is his biological mother , Yoshebel Rameses 's adoptive brother , charges him with planning an insurrection . Moses is the man the Hebrews learns from Memnet is the son of Hebrew but reveals the story to Moses cloth he was wrapped in as a baby , which Memnet to Yoshebel\ Aaron Miriam.\n\nMoses urges him to return to the palace so he may help his people when he becomes pharaoh , to which he agrees after he completes a final task . Moses saves Joshua , telling Joshua . The confession is witnessed by the overseer Dathan , but would free the slaves if he could . Sethi banishes Moses as the sole heir . Yoshebel . After defending seven sisters from Amalekites is housed with the girls\ ' father Jethro sheik , who worships the God . Moses 's eldest daughter Sephora , who has escaped hard labor . While farming , Moses Sinai . Moses returns to Egypt to free the Hebrews.\n\nMoses 's snake swallows his . Rameses prohibits straw from being provided to the Hebrews rescues Moses from being stoned to death by the Hebrews to blood at a festival of Khnum 's palace . Moses warns him the next plague to fall upon Egypt himself . Enraged at the plagues , Rameses orders all first-born Hebrews , including the child of Rameses . Angrily , Pharaoh , which begins the Exodus from Egypt.\n\nRameses to the Red Sea uses God\ Sea make it to safety , Moses returns empty-handed to Nefretiri 's god as God.\n\nMoses . Impatiently urges a reluctant Aaron . A sees the Ten Commandments in two stone tablets . Moses descends from the mountain to the sight of decadence . Enraged leads the Hebrews . However , he could not enter the Promised land due to his disobedience to the Lord of Strife as leader , and spends the rest of his life at Mount Nebo arrive by train at a Japanese prison camp in Burma Saito Kwai and Rangoon Colonel Nicholson that the Geneva Conventions later forbids any escape attempts because they had been ordered by headquarters to surrender , and escapes could be seen as defiance of orders.\n\nAt the morning assembly , Nicholson threatens to have them shot , but Nicholson , the British medical officer , warns Saito leaves the officers standing all day in the intense heat . That evening , the officers are placed in a punishment hut , while Nicholson States Navy Commander Shears fail to meet his deadline , he would be obliged to commit ritual suicide . Desperate 's victory in the Russo-Japanese War and his officers and exempting them from manual labour.\n\nNicholson is shocked by the poor job being done by his men . Over the protests of some of his officers , he orders Captain Hughes when British Major Warden is so appalled , he confesses he is not an officer ; he impersonated one , expecting better treatment from the Japanese . Warden Navy volunteers.\n\nMeanwhile , Nicholson long after the war\ 's end . When he asks that their Japanese counterparts pitch in as well , a resigned Saito expresses grave doubts about the sanity of Colonel Nicholson\ , Warden , and Canadian Lieutenant Joyce Yai and Joyce spots the wire and brings it to Saito\ to death . Nicholson from reaching the detonator . When Joyce swims across the river , but is himself shot . Recognising the dying Shears exclaims , `` What have I done ? '' Warden . The dying colonel stumbles towards the detonator and collapses on the plunger just in time to blow up the bridge and send the train hurtling into the river below . Warden and Shears , observing the carnage , shakes his head muttering , `` Madness ! , Madness 26 , Judah Ben-Hur Heston , who lives with his mother , Miriam Scott ( Cathy O\'Donnell ( Stella Vitelleschi ( Sam Jaffe ( Haya Harareet and Esther 's childhood friend , the Roman ( Stephen Boyd , Messala garrison , the Fortress . Messala and its imperial power , while Judah issues an ultimatum demanding that Judah authorities.\n\nDuring the parade for the new governor of Judea Gratus Doro 's house . Gratus knows this was an accident , he condemns Judah and Tirzah for his refusal to help . By punishing a known friend and prominent citizen , he hopes to intimidate the Jewish populace . Judah . As he and other slaves are being marched to the galleys , they stop in Nazareth ' horses . Desperate , Judah detachment denies it to him . He collapses , but is revived when Jesus ( Claude Heater is assigned to the flagship of the Roman Consul Quintus Arrius Hawkins admires Judah\ declines the offer , declaring that God fleet encounters the Macedonians , Arrius to be chained to their oars . Arrius\ unchains the other rowers and rescues Arrius wrongly believes the battle ended in defeat and attempts to atone in the Roman stops him . They are rescued , and Arrius fleet\ 's victory . Arrius Tiberius Relph , and adopts him as his son.\n\nAnother year passes . Wealthy learns Roman returns to Judea ( Finlay Currie Ilderim Griffith 's prowess as a charioteer , the sheik asks him to drive his quadriga in a race before the new governor of Judea Pilate Thring declines , even after he learns that Messala returns to his home in Jerusalem , and learns her arranged marriage did not occur and that she is still in love with him . He visits Messala and Tirzah to conceal their condition from Judah 's mind , and he decides to seek vengeance on Messala drives a chariot with blades on the hubs to tear apart competing vehicles . He attempts to destroy Judah\ is fatally trampled on by another passing chariot , while Judah tells Judah of the Lepers to remain hidden from them for now and not break Miriam\ rule for his family\ 's fate , Judah and rejects his patrimony and Roman to the Leper and finds out that Tirzah and Esther and her daughter to see Jesus , but the trial of Jesus is being marched through the streets he collapses while carrying his cross . Judah witnesses the crucifixion of Jesus and Tirzah returns home a changed man and embraces Esther and Tirzah.\n\nA Guinea ( John Mills and Ernst MacArthur Kirk and Ernst has put up a flag indicating the ship is under quarantine and that there is Black Death ( Kevin Corcoran Danes rescued from the ship which they name Duke . Mother McGuire , also build inventions to provide modern amenities to the family such as drawing water and preserving food.\n\nFritz and Ernst Moreland Parker '' captives for ransom . Fritz rescue Bertie Moreland 's grandfather , stays behind . The three dodge the pirates and head back to the family\ 's tree house . En is really Roberta Munro realizes the pirates will try to reclaim Roberta and Ernst . Ernst , older and more experienced , uses his charm and physical attributes to attract her . Fritz eventually come to blows over her and are stopped only by the intervention of Father Switzerland has the elephant , Ernst the zebra , the monkey on Duke fires the gun to signal the start of the race ; the pirates , who are at that time sailing the coast looking for the place they last saw the ship that brought the family to the island , hear the gun and know the family is near.\n\nLed by their captain ( Sessue Hayakawa ' much-maligned `` pirate alarm '' is the only thing that warns them of the surprise attack . They begin defending the fortress but are soon down to only a few shots with their muskets . At this critical moment , a ship appears on the horizon captained by Roberta\ Moreland , Mother choose to remain on the island with Duke , and Francis\ Moreland will likely be recommended as Governor chooses to return to Europe and Roberta Switzerland , the Roman Republic named Spartacus Douglas businessman Lentulus Batiatus Ustinov for his gladiatorial school , where he instructs trainer Marcellus McGraw forms a quiet relationship with a serving woman named Varinia Simmons and Varinia senator Marcus Licinius Crassus Olivier buys Varinia and three others to fight in pairs . When Spartacus named Draba Strode audience , but is killed by an arena guard and Crassus takes Varinia 's house in Rome kills Marcellus and back to their homes . They plunder Roman country estates as they go , collecting enough money to buy sea transport from Rome\ . Countless , who escaped while being delivered to Crassus ( Tony Curtis 's service . Privately , Spartacus , now his informal wife , becomes pregnant by him , and he also comes to regard the spirited Antoninus Senate defeats the multiple armies it sends against him . Crassus\ ( Charles Laughton army . To try and prevent this , Gracchus Caesar Gavin lacks Crassus\ , he mistakes the man\ 's rigid outlook for nobility . Thus , when Gracchus out of Italy of the slave army , Caesar uses a bribe of his own to make the pirates abandon Spartacus army secretly force the rebels away from the coastline towards Rome panic that Spartacus gives Crassus convinces his men to die fighting . Just by rebelling and proving themselves human , he says that they have struck a blow against slavery . In the ensuing battle , after initially breaking the ranks of Crassus\ and two other forces advancing from behind , and most of them are massacred . Afterward , living or dead . Every surviving man responds by shouting `` I\ ! '' ( an idea from Fast\ has them all sentenced to death by crucifixion along the Via Appia and Capua has found Varinia 's newborn son and has taken them prisoner . He is disturbed by the idea that Spartacus as devoted to him as she was to her former husband . When she rejects him , he furiously seeks out Spartacus ' school ) and forces him to fight Antoninus kills Antoninus worried about Spartacus\ , whom he senses will someday eclipse him.\n\nGracchus , having seen Rome to rescue Spartacus\ and carry them away to freedom . On the way out of Rome 's cross . Varinia , Arizona Crane Loomis 's debts . After lunch , Marion 's boss asks her to deposit the money in the bank , and allows her to leave work early after she complains of a headache . Once , California lives.\n\nEn route to Fairvale pulls over on the side of the road and falls asleep ; she is awakened by a state patrol trooper . Suspicious about her skittish behavior , he follows her as she drives away . Hoping to lose him , Marion , California Mainline license plates , for a Ford Custom tags . The officer sees Marion stops for the night at the Bates Motel Bates and his mother about bringing a woman into their Gothic 's story , Marion in the morning to return the stolen money , which she hides in a folded newspaper on the nightstand . As she showers , a shadowy figure stabs her to death with a chef\ 's knife . After seeing blood , Norman 's room , where he discovers her body . He cleans up the crime scene , putting Marion\ 's sister Lila and confronts Sam 's whereabouts . Private Arbogast is wanted for stealing the $ 40,000 . He sleuths local hotels and motels , and Norman\ met Norman\ refuses to allow it . Arbogast and Lila and promises to phone again soon . He goes to the Bates\ 's mother ; as he reaches the top of the stairs , he is murdered.\n\nWhen Lila do not hear from Arbogast visits the motel . He sees a figure in the house who he assumes is Mrs. Bates and Sam Bates lied to Sam so he could pursue Marion that some ill has befallen Arbogast and Sam carries his mother from her room and hides her in the fruit cellar against her will.\n\nAt the motel , Sam by engaging in conversation while Lila grills him , Norman out , and rushes to the house . Lila Bates turns her around and discovers she is a mummified corpse . Lila runs into the cellar , holding a knife and wearing his mother\ 's clothes and a wig . Before Norman , Sam murdered Mrs. Bates '' personality is jealous and possessive : whenever Norman '' , Norman and Arbogast '' personality has taken permanent hold of Norman\ sits in a holding cell , `` Mother '' \ 's voice-over protests that the murders were Norman\ 's car is pulled out of the swamp.\n\nSongwriter Roger Radcliffe , along with his Dalmatian , Pongo decides to find a wife for Roger and her female Dalmatian , Perdita out of the house and drags him through the park to arrange a meeting . He and Anita gives birth to a litter of 15 puppies . That same night , they are visited by Cruella De Vil 's . She offers to buy the entire litter , but Roger and Horace Yard and Perdita bark '' , a canine gossip line , to ask for help from the other dogs in London.\n\nColonel English Sheepdog , a gray horse , and Sergeant Tibbs Hall 's abandoned and dilapidated family estate , also known as The De Vil Place learns they are going to be made into dog-skin fur coats , Colonel . Upon receiving the message , Pongo leave town to retrieve their puppies . Winter has come , and they must cross the Stour River overhears Cruella and Horace attempts to rescue them while Jasper are preoccupied watching television , but they finish their show and come for them before he can get them out of the house . Pongo break in and confront Jasper just as they are about to kill the puppies . While the adult dogs attack them , Colonel guide the puppies from the house.\n\nAfter a happy reunion with their own puppies , Pongo realize there are dozens of others with them , 99 altogether including their own . Shocked at Cruella\ and Perdita and Anita through deep snow , as all open water is frozen solid . Other animals help them along the way , while Cruella , and Horace . As it is leaving , melting snow clears off the soot and Cruella and Horace yells in frustration as the van drives away.\n\nBack in London and Anita and his first big hit , a song about Cruella the summer of 1957 in the West Side\ Square , there is tension between a white American gang , the Jets , led by Riff gang , the Sharks . After a brawl erupts , Lieutenant Schrank Krupke to a rumble at an upcoming dance for neighborhood control.\n\nRiff decides that his best friend Tony invites Tony is uninterested . He tells Riff that he senses something important will happen , which Riff , tells her best friend and Bernardo\ , how excited she is about the dance . At the dance , the gangs and girls refuse to intermingle . Tony fall in love . However , Bernardo stay away from her . Riff proposes a meeting with Bernardo 's drug store.\n\nMaria is sent home ; Anita is overprotective of Maria Rico States.\n\nTony on her fire escape , where they reaffirm their love . Krupke arrive , both groups agree to have the showdown the following evening under the highway , with a one-on-one fist fight . When Schrank accidentally tells Maria arrives to see Maria . They profess their love and Anita learns of their relationship . Maria promise to prevent the rumble . Tony fantasize about their wedding ceremony.\n\nThe Jets and Sharks arrives to stop the fight , but Bernardo be humiliated , Riff tries to intervene , which leads to Bernardo . Tony with Riff\ sirens blare and everyone flees , leaving behind the dead bodies.\n\nMaria waits for Tony arrives and tells her what happened . Tony confirms her love for him and asks Tony having them focus on reacting to the police . Anybodys is now after Tony sends the Jets to warn Tony.\n\nAnita and Maria and Maria 's , where they will pick up getaway money to elope . Anita leaving through the window and chides Maria convinces her to help them elope.\n\nSchrank arrives and questions Maria , Maria tell him that Maria reaches Doc\ intervenes . Anita was right about them and that Chino . Doc his getaway money in the basement and delivers Anita\ runs into the streets , shouting for Chino 's , Tony and they run toward each other , only for Chino . The Jets and Sharks holding Tony stops the gangs from fighting and takes the gun from Chino , Krupke arrive and the gangs form a funeral procession , with Maria and lead him away.\n\nThe film is presented in two parts , divided by an intermission.\n\nThe film opens in 1935 when Lawrence Paul\ , a reporter tries ( with little success ) to gain insights into this remarkable , enigmatic man from those who knew him.\n\nThe story then moves backward to the First World War is a misfit British Army Murray Dryden Bureau Faisal . On the journey , his Bedouin , is killed by Sherif Ali later meets Colonel Brighton ignores Brighton\ . His outspokenness piques the prince\ 's interest.\n\nBrighton advises Faisal proposes a daring surprise attack on Aqaba to provide fifty men , led by a sceptical Sherif Ali and Farraj as servants . They cross the Nefud Desert , travelling day and night on the last stage to reach water . One of Ali\ , succumbs to fatigue and falls off his camel unnoticed during the night . When Lawrence Sherif Ali Arab abu Tayi tribe , to turn against the Turks 's scheme is almost derailed when one of Ali\ 's because of a blood feud . Howeitat declares that he will execute the murderer himself . He is then stunned to discover that the culprit is Gasim garrison . Lawrence and the new commander , General Allenby Desert dies when he stumbles into quicksand . Lawrence , but Allenby whether there is any basis for the Arabs\ . When pressed , the general states that they do not.\n\nLawrence launches a guerrilla war , blowing up trains and harassing the Turks war correspondent Jackson Bentley 's exploits , making him famous . On one raid , Farraj shoots him dead before fleeing.\n\nWhen Lawrence with Ali residents , to the Turkish Bey is stripped , ogled , and prodded . Then , for striking out at the Bey shaken . He returns to British headquarters in Cairo , General Allenby . Lawrence cause . They sight a column of retreating Turkish soldiers who have just massacred the residents of Tafas 's men is from Tafas hesitates , the man charges the Turks takes up the dead man\ 's battle cry ; the result is a slaughter in which Lawrence ahead of Allenby\ 's efforts , they bicker constantly . Unable to maintain the public utilities , the Arabs soon abandon most of the city to the British.\n\nLawrence , as his usefulness to both Faisal Tracy Mountains in the opening lines of the film , `` and is marked on maps . `` \n\nThe film then moves into `` The Rivers '' sequence ( considerably to the east of the Rockies ) .\n\nMountain man Linus Rawlings ) is making his way by horse and waterway through the mountains . He confers with a group of Indians . The scene then shifts to Zebulon Prescott ) and his family set out west for the frontier via the Erie Canal '' , at this time , being the Ohio River . Along the journey , they meet Rawlings , who is traveling east , to Pittsburgh 's daughter , Eve Baker is not ready to settle down.\n\nLinus Rawlings Colonel Hawkins Brennan is betrayed when he accompanies seductive Dora Hawkins Bazlen State Park Hawkins falls into a deep hole . He is not seriously wounded , and he rescues the Prescott Van Cleef and Hawkins , in a form of rough frontier justice.\n\nAfter Zebulon for their lost loved ones and commends to Him the thieves\ ' souls `` whether You want \'em or not '' , the settlers continue down the river , but their raft is caught in rapids , and Zebulon ( Agnes Moorehead , finding that he can not live without Eve Hathaway.\n\nEve\ ( Debbie Reynolds but after some years finds herself touring in St. Louis hall . She attracts the attention of professional gambler Cleve Van Valen Peck gold mine , and to avoid paying his debts to another gambler ( John Larch joins the wagon train taking her there . Wagonmaster Roger Morgan Preston Clegg Ritter , Lilith arrive at the mine , only to find that it is worthless . Cleve returns to work in a dance hall in a camp town , living out of a covered wagon . Morgan is singing in the music salon of a riverboat . By chance , Cleve 's voice , he leaves the poker table ( and a winning hand ) to propose to her . He tells her of the opportunities waiting in the rapidly growing city of San Francisco Hathaway.\n\nLinus Rawlings army as a captain in the American Civil War 's wishes , their son Zeb ) eagerly enlists as well , looking for glory and an escape from farming . Corporal Peterson Devine of Shiloh that war is nothing like he imagined , and unknown to him , his father dies there . Zeb ( Russ Tamblyn Ulysses S. Grant Morgan Tecumseh Sherman ) . The rebel realizes he has the opportunity to rid the South no choice but to kill him with the bayonet from his shattered musket . Afterward rejoins the army.\n\nWhen the war finally ends , Zeb had been killed . Zeb Ford.\n\nFollowing the daring riders from the Pony Express Pacific Railroad Pacific Railroad cavalry , trying to maintain peace with the Indians with the help of grizzled buffalo hunter Jethro Stuart ) , an old friend of Linus\ King ) violates a treaty by building on Indian territory , the Arapahos resigns and heads to Arizona.\n\nA Lange 's daughter , Julie and King . [ 5 ] [ 6 ] \n\nThis Marshall.\n\nIn San Francisco auctions off her possessions ( Cleve , inviting Zeb ( Carolyn Jones at Gold City\ also runs into an old enemy there , outlaw Charlie Gant ) . Zeb 's brother in a gunfight . When Gant and his family , Zeb City\ Ramsey J. Cobb is not wanted for anything in that territory , so Ramsey to make good his threat someday . Suspecting Gant 's reluctant help . Gant and his entire gang ( one member played by Harry Dean Stanton and the Rawlings Hathaway.\n\nA Angeles Francisco Gate Bridge.\n\nThis Hathaway.\n\nThe . It concentrates on events on both sides of the channel , such as the Allies waiting for a break in the poor weather and anticipating the reaction of the Axis . The film pays particular attention to Gen. Eisenhower\ Commander , after reviewing the initial reports of bad weather and reports about the divisions within the German High Command 6 when Allied Day , including the British glider missions to secure Pegasus Bridge , the infiltration and sabotage work conducted by the French resistance and SOE to the invasion and the uncertainty of German commanders as to whether it was a feint in preparation for crossings at the Pas ( see Operation Fortitude , the advance inshore from the Normandy Ranger Assault Group\ du Hoc by Free French Forces pilots . The film concludes with a montage showing various Allied by crossing France.\n\nAfter of Pharsalus , Julius Caesar Harrison , under the pretext of being named the executor of the will of the young Pharaoh Ptolemy XIII O\'Sullivan ( Elizabeth Taylor to restore her throne from her younger brother . Caesar ( Gregoire Aslan , and banishes Ptolemy . Cleopatra of Egypt , who in turn desires to become King . They marry , and when their son Caesarion accepts him publicly , which becomes the talk of Rome he is made dictator for life , Caesar . She arrives in Rome people . The Senate wishes to be made king , which is anathema to the Romans . On the Ides in 44 BC and flee the city , starting a rebellion . An alliance between Octavian 's adopted son , Mark Antony Burton 's right-hand man and general as well as Marcus Ameilius Lepidus is angered after Caesar\ as his official heir , and angrily returns to Egypt.\n\nWhile in the east , Antony . After refusing several times to leave Egypt gives in and meets him in Tarsus assuring Anthony 's removal of Lepidus to return to Rome 's sister , Octavia 's distraughtness and enragement . Anthony reconcile and marry , with Anthony . Octavian 's will to the Roman . Rome , and Octavian\ receives a rapturous response.\n\nThe war is decided at the naval Battle on September , where Octavian\ , defeats the Antony-Egyptian fleet . Cleopatra is dead and orders the Egyptian forces home . Antony manages to convince Antony 's advancing army . However , Antony\ ( Martin Landau , kills himself . Antony into single combat , but is finally forced to flee into the city.\n\nWhen Antony , not believing that Antony falls on his own sword . Apollodorus and assists him to the tomb where Cleopatra dies in Cleopatra\ with Caesarion\ , who had poisoned himself . Octavian receives word that Antony is holed up in a tomb . There he offers her his word that he will allow her to rule Egypt province in return for her agreeing to accompany him to Rome knows her son is dead and agrees to Octavian\ 's chamber and find her dressed in gold , and dead , along with her servants , while an asp crawls along the floor.\n\nSeeking to exact revenge on James Bond No , the international criminal organisation SPECTRE . Their star pupil is Donald '' Grant impostor in one minute and fifty-two seconds on a training course with a garrote wire concealed in his wristwatch.\n\nMeanwhile , the organisation\ 's Chief Planner chess grandmaster named Kronsteen 5 ) , devises a plan to play British and Soviet intelligence against each other to procure a Lektor 's Chief Executive 1 , puts Rosa Klebb 3 ) , a former Colonel ( the counter-intelligence branch of Soviet Intelligence in the West of Operations chooses Grant until he acquires the Lektor . As part of the scheme , Klebb Romanova , who believes the ex-Colonel still to be working for SMERSH.\n\nIn London informs Bond has contacted their `` Station \'T\ , claiming to have fallen in love with Bond , and will bring a top secret Lektor with her to sweeten the deal but only on the condition that Bond is supplied by Q AR-7 , Bond Kerim Bey , who kills one of them after Bond in order to provoke hostilities between British . In response , the Soviets bomb Kerim\ , however , is away from his desk for a tryst with his mistress . He and Bond . Thus , they learn that the Soviet agent Krilencu Bey to a rural gypsy settlement . However , Krilencu feast , where Bond and Kerim 's confusion , he is saved from an enemy fighter during the attack by a distant sniper shot from Grant and Kerim Bey down to his hideout , where Kerim Bey 's rifle.\n\nUpon returning to his hotel suite that night , Bond waiting for him in his bed and has sex with her ; neither is aware that SPECTRE heads off for a prearranged rendezvous at Hagia Sophia ensuring Bond and Kerim Bey and , together with Romanova Express Bey tailing them , prompting him and Bond leaves Benz Bey kills them and makes it appear as though they killed each other , preventing Bond from leaving the train with Romanova 's men.\n\nAt the railway station in Belgrade passes on word of Kerim Bey\ Y . However , when the train arrives at the station , Grant , sent from Station Y at dinner , Grant before taunting him about SPECTRE\ was unaware of what was truly going on , believing she was working for Russia reveals to Bond his plans to leave behind the film SPECTRE at the hotel , along with a forged blackmail letter , to make it appear that their deaths were the result of a murder-suicide , to scandalise the British intelligence community . Bond into setting off the booby trap in his attach\xc3\xa9 case . This distracts Grant to attack him in a brutal brawl . In the ensuing fight , Bond then drags the barely conscious Romanova accomplice , where he hijacks Grant\ hearing the news of Grant\ 1 calls Klebb onto the carpet to explain what went wrong and remind them that SPECTRE is executed by the henchman Morzeny , however , is given one last chance to make good on the mission and acquire the Lektor 's stolen truck is intercepted along its escape route by a SPECTRE , Bond make it to Grant\ coast and steal that , too , only to be pursued by Morzeny powerboats . Bond , however , escapes by dumping his own powerboat\ 's fuel drums overboard and detonating them with a Very reach a hotel in Venice , however , disguised as a maid , makes one final attempt on Bond . Klebb shoots her with her own dropped gun . With the mission accomplished , Bond leave Venice throws Grant\ , Professor Henry Higgins Harrison the English Garden Hugh Pickering Hyde-White to see him . Higgins boasts he could teach anyone to speak so well he could pass them off as a duke or duchess at an embassy ball , even the young woman with a strong Cockney Doolittle Hepburn 's ambition is to work in a flower shop , but her accent makes that impossible ( `` Wouldn\'t It Be Loverly ' home , seeking lessons . Pickering is intrigued and offers to cover all the attendant expenses if Higgins agrees , and describes how women ruin lives ( `` I\ '' ) .\n\nEliza\ 's father , Alfred P. Doolittle Holloway of Luck ' house three days later , ostensibly to protect his daughter\ 's virtue , but in reality simply to extract some money from Higgins . Higgins recommends Alfred who is interested in morality.\n\nEliza endures Higgins\ , and Pickering finally `` gets it '' ( `` The Rain '' ) ; she instantly begins to speak with an impeccable upper class accent ( `` I Could Have Danced All Night takes her to Ascot Racecourse Gavotte while cheering on a horse . Higgins partly conceals a grin behind his hand . At Ascot Eynsford-Hill Brett Where '' ) . Higgins then takes Eliza Karpathy Bikel , converses briefly with Eliza 's hard work is barely acknowledged , with all the praise going to Higgins ) '' ) . Outside , Freddy Where ( Reprise , who is irritated by him as all he does is talk ( `` Show Me tries to return to her old life , but finds that she no longer fits in . She meets her father , who has been left a large fortune by the wealthy American to whom Higgins 's stepmother . Alfred has ruined him , lamenting that he is now bound by `` middle-class morality '' ( `` Get Me On Time eventually ends up visiting Higgins\ Cooper finds Eliza to Him into coming back to him . He becomes angered when she announces that she is going to marry Freddy 's assistant ( `` Without You '' ) . He makes his way home , stubbornly predicting that she will come crawling back . However , he comes to the unsettling realization that she has become an important part of his life ( `` I\ Accustomed '' ) . As he listens to a recording of Eliza\ accent , `` I washed my hands and face before I come , I did . '' Higgins looks surprised , then pleased , before asking where his slippers are.\n\nAfter destroying a drug laboratory in Latin America agent James Bond Beach , via CIA Leiter Goldfinger sees Goldfinger Masterson into losing . After Bond consummate their new relationship , Bond 's Korean . When Bond awakens , he finds Jill , the chancellor of the exchequer and M that gold prices vary across the world , allowing one to profit by selling bullion internationally , and his objective is determining how Goldfinger is given a modified Aston Martin DB5 . Bond socially at his country club in Kent gold bar at stake . Aware ulterior motives , Goldfinger not to interfere in his affairs , reinforcing the threat by having Oddjob to Switzerland 's sister , attempts to avenge her sister by assassinating Goldfinger 's plant and discovers Goldfinger Phantom III also overhears Goldfinger Ling Grand Slam encounters Tilly as she tries to kill Goldfinger kills Tilly with his hat , and Bond lying over it . He then lies to Goldfinger that MI6 Slam to spare Bond\ into believing Bond 's private jet , piloted by Pussy Galore , Kentucky escapes and witnesses Goldfinger\ mafiosi , who have brought the materials he needs for Operation Grand Slam reveals that his plan is to rob the U.S. Bullion Depository Knox 9 nerve gas into the atmosphere . After Bond , Goldfinger hints he does not intend to steal the gold , and Bond will detonate a dirty bomb inside the vault , designed to render the gold useless for 58 years . This will increase the value of Goldfinger\ an advantage from the potential economic chaos . Goldfinger States.\n\nOperation Grand Slam Galore\ spraying the gas over Fort Knox . Goldfinger\ Knox arrives in a helicopter with the atomic device . In the vault , his henchman Kisch to the bomb . Unbeknownst however , Bond to alert the Americans and replace the gas with a harmless substance . The troops arise and attack , killing many of Goldfinger\ locks the vault , takes off his coat , revealing a US Army Ling realizes they are trapped and attempts to stop the bomb , but Oddjob frees himself with Kisch\ batters him before he can disarm the bomb . Eventually Bond , then forces the lock off the bomb using gold bullion bars from the vault , but ultimately is unable to disarm it . After finally killing all of Goldfinger\ arrives with seconds to spare , and simply turns off the device with the timer stopped on `` 0:07 '' .\n\nBond is invited to the White House . However , Goldfinger there . In a struggle for Goldfinger\ is blown out of the cabin through the ruptured window . With the plane out of control , Bond and they parachute safely from the aircraft before it crashes into the ocean . A search helicopter passes , but Bond is no time to be rescued\xe2\x80\x9d and draws the parachute over himself and Galore.\n\nIn Edwardian London entertains a crowd as a one-man band when he senses a change in the wind . Afterwards , he directly addresses the audience , and gives them a tour of Cherry Tree Lane family\ 's home . George Banks , that Katie Nanna and Michael Jones Banks and Michael Banks ' home , but a strong gust of wind blows them away , and Jane witness a young nanny descending from the sky using her umbrella . Presenting herself to Mr. Banks Poppins Banks Poppins , working as a screever ; Mary Poppins Poppins go on a leisurely stroll . Mary Poppins Poppins 's drawings , returning the group to London.\n\nOn Albert Poppins Poppins Banks and Michael Dawes Sr Dawes invest his tuppence in the bank , snatching it from him . Michael flee the bank , getting lost in the East End , now working as a chimney sweep , who escorts them home . The three and Mary Poppins ' home . An incensed Mr. Banks , who tells him he should spend more time with his children before they grow up . Jane give their father Michael\ to the bank , where he is given a humiliating cashiering , and is dismissed . Looking to the tuppence for words , he blurts out `` Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious ! `` , tells one of Uncle Albert\ mulls over the joke , but finally `` gets '' it , and floats up into the air , laughing.\n\nThe next day , the wind changes , meaning Mary Poppins Banks meet Mr. Dawes Jr Banks Poppins bidding her farewell , telling her not to stay away too long.\n\nIn 1938 , Maria woman studying to become a nun at Nonnberg Abbey . Her love of music and the mountains , her youthful enthusiasm and imagination , and her lack of discipline cause some concern among the nuns . The Mother Abbess would be happier outside the abbey , sends her to the villa of retired naval officer Captain Georg von Trapp , Louisa , Brigitta , and Gretl has been raising his children using strict military discipline following the death of his wife . Although the children misbehave at first , Maria , the oldest , is won over after Maria , a messenger boy she is in love with.\n\nWhile the Captain , Maria and the surrounding mountains , and teaches them how to sing . When the Captain Elsa Schraeder Detweiler and the children returning from a boat ride on the lake that concludes when their boat overturns . Displeased by his children\ 's clothes and activities , and Maria\ orders her to return to the abbey . Just then he hears singing coming from inside the house and is astonished to see his children singing for the Baroness joins his children , singing for the first time in years . Afterwards , he apologizes to Maria proposes he enter them in the upcoming Salzburg Festival as he is opposed to his children singing in public . He does agree , however , to organize a grand party at the villa . The night of the party , while guests in formal attire waltz in the ballroom , Maria notices Maria the traditional L\xc3\xa4ndler in a graceful performance , culminating in a close embrace . Confused about her feelings , Maria , who noticed the Captain\ , hides her jealousy while convincing Maria Abbess has stayed in seclusion to avoid her feelings for the Captain returns to the villa , she learns about the Captain\ and agrees to stay until they find a replacement governess . The Captain\ , however , have not changed , and after breaking off his engagement the Captain the Captain are on their honeymoon , Max Festival has been annexed by the Third Reich , the couple return to their home , where a telegram awaits informing the Captain that he must report to the German Naval base at Bremerhaven . Strongly opposed to the Nazis , the Captain immediately for Switzerland of the Von Trapps\ , whom Liesl Youth family attempt to leave , they are stopped by a group of Brownshirts Hans Zeller maintains they are headed to the Salzburg Festival insists on escorting them to the festival , after which his men will accompany the Captain that night at the festival , during their final number , the von Trapp Abbess . Upon seeing Liesl family make their way on foot across the frontier into Switzerland , Adam , Cain , Noah\ , and the story of Abraham of Babel and Gomorrah is somber and reverential , while that of Noah 's relationship with the animals is depicted as harmonious . It was originally conceived as the first in a series of films retelling the entire Old Keoki Kanakoa of Hawaii Divinity School and convert the natives to Christianity Abner Hale , the young ministers must marry \xe2\x80\x94 a problem for Abner household where romance or pleasure , even between a married couple , is considered sinful . The head of the school , Reverend Dr. Thorn to his niece , Jerusha Bromley England Rafer Hoxworth 's parents are not enthused about her marrying the awkward Abner that appear at the Bromley arrives.\n\nAbner is stunned by Jerusha\ encourages him , and he finally proposes and she accepts , with the understanding that they will both be going on mission to Hawaii depart for Hawaii , and after a harrowing sea voyage during which all but Abner Horn , they arrive in Keoki\ , Maui . The missionaries are horrified to see what they consider the islanders\ ' sinful ways . Naked young girls swim out to meet the ships and have sexual relations with the sailors ; monuments are dedicated to the traditional gods ; and Keoki\ is both the husband and the biological brother of Keoki\ Kanakoa Nui Nui is expected to also marry his sister Noelani when she succeeds Malama Nui is willing to forego this in order to become what he truly wants to be , an ordained Christian minister.\n\nMalama takes a liking to Jerusha teach her to write English agrees to learn about the Christian God , the Hales tries to change the villagers\ ' tradition of killing unwanted or deformed babies , personally rescuing one baby who has a birthmark . Jerusha goes through a difficult labor to give birth to her own healthy son , tended only by the inexperienced Abner confesses to her his great love for her , a love he normally feels is sinful and tries to suppress . Abner who works as a servant for the Hales as a minister ; in reality , he and his superiors have no intentions of ordaining any natives . Keoki . He becomes disillusioned with Christianity , but will not take the final step to convert because she will have to send away Kelolo ' urging , she enacts a curfew for sailors and forbids girls from swimming out to the ships . The sailors in port riot in protest , led by Captain Hoxworth discovers that the love of his life , Jerusha and is now the wife of Reverend Hale to enact the restrictions . The sailors partially torch the church , but the Hawaiians help the Hales , Hoxworth to sail away with him , and knocks Abner and is baptized a Christian right before she dies while saying a final goodbye to Kelolo Nui refused to build in a way that the villagers suggested to let the wind pass through ) . Soon after her death , Abner conducting a marriage ceremony for Keoki , the new Ali\'i Nui , rejected as a minister , has turned back to the traditional gods . Keoki agreed to become a Christian in order to set an example for her people , whom she realized must become Christians for their own good as more and more white settlers arrive , she secretly asked that after she was buried in the Christian take her heart back to Bora Bora and enraged , Abner family and the other Hawaiians and tells them God , gives birth to a horribly deformed baby who can not be accepted as Ali\'i Nui begs Abner 's punishment for Keoki\ 's sin . Keoki and Jerusha . While this is a relatively minor childhood illness to the missionaries and sailors , the native Hawaiians have no resistance , develop high fevers and die in droves . Keoki 's arms in a feverish delirium , renouncing God returns home wracked by sadness and guilt , feeling that he failed in his mission to save Keoki , who is worn out from overwork in the hot climate , giving birth to three children , and nursing the sick Hawaiians would send loving people like the Hawaiians to hell even if they weren\'t Christians , and furthermore tells Abner he can help the Hawaiians by giving them what he has always had difficulty giving her - his love . Jerusha , her children , and Captain Hoxworth Jerusha\ becomes more loving towards the Hawaiians and works with them to try to prevent white settlers and plantation owners from taking their land . His position is at odds with the other ministers , who have recently voted that it is time for the churches to own land themselves and try to make money from it , something the ministers had avoided before . Abner England church is given to another minister . But Abner and says he will stay and continue to preach , in the street if necessary , and without any support from the church organization . He does agree to send the three Hale England and receive a proper education . After bidding his children goodbye at the dock , Abner very much needs . He is overjoyed to see that the young man is the baby with the birthmark , now grown to an adult , whom Jerusha , an associate history professor at a small New England , the daughter of the university president . After they return home drunk from a party , Martha Nick mistakenly believes to be a math professor ) , and his wife , Honey \xe2\x80\x93 and George and Honey reveals that Martha 's son , adding that she understands that the following day ( Sunday is visibly angry that Martha aggressively and he retaliates with his usual passive aggression . Martha 's taunts continue , and George and Honey , who has had too much brandy , and has just been whirled violently around the room by George 's afraid of Virginia Woolf Bush and Nick more for her family\ 's money than passion , and married her only because he mistakenly believed she was pregnant . George a threat . George would be a good place to start.\n\nWhen their guests propose leaving , George suggests they stop to dance . While Honey watch , Nick , who continues to mock and criticize George unplugs the jukebox and announces the game is over . In response , Martha to attack Martha pulls him away from her . George , a good-looking teacher and his timid wife , who marry because of her hysterical pregnancy and money , then settle in a small college town . An embarrassed Honey indiscreetly told George promises revenge on George the parking lot , George drives off , retrieving Nick , leaving George half conscious on the back seat and sees Martha together through the bedroom window . Through Honey\ begins to suspect that her pregnancy was in fact real , and that she secretly had an abortion . He then devises a plan to get back at Martha.\n\nWhen Martha of being sexually inadequate , he blames his lack of performance on all the liquor he has consumed . George and Nick 's son , prompting her to reminisce about his birth and childhood and how he was nearly destroyed by his father . George of engaging in destructive and abusive behavior with the boy , who frequently ran away to escape her attention . George begs George suddenly realizes the truth : Martha had never been able to have children , and filled the void with an imaginary son . By declaring their son dead , accordingly , George explains that their one mutually-agreed-upon rule was to never mention the `` existence '' of their son to anyone else , and that he `` killed '' him because Martha young couple departs quietly , and George are left alone as the day begins to break outside . George 's Afraid Woolf responds , `` I am , George by Bagheera , a mother wolf who has just had cubs . She and her mate , Rama soon becomes well acquainted with jungle life and plays with his wolf siblings.\n\nTen years later , the wolf pack learns that Shere Khan tiger , has returned to the jungle . Pack decides that Mowgli volunteers to escort him to a `` Man-Village . '' They leave that very night , but Mowgli rest in a tree for the night , where Kaa , but Bagheera tries to join the elephant patrol led by Colonel Hathi . Bagheera , but after a fight decides to leave Mowgli soon meets up with the laid-back , fun-loving sloth bear Baloo himself and never take him back to the Man-Village.\n\nShortly and take him to their leader , King Louie Louie stay in the jungle if he will tell Louie does not know how to make fire . Bagheera arrive to rescue Mowgli Louie\ speaks to Baloo that night and convinces him that the jungle will never be safe for Mowgli Khan reluctantly explains to Mowgli that the Man-Village accuses him of breaking his promise and runs away . As Baloo , Bagheera and his patrol . However , Shere Khan and Hathi\ himself.\n\nMeanwhile , Mowgli once again , but thanks to the unwitting intervention of the suspicious Shere Khan escapes . As a storm gathers , a depressed Mowgli as a fellow outcast . Shere Khan . Baloo Khan , but is injured . When lightning strikes a nearby tree and sets it ablaze , the vultures swoop in to distract Shere Khan gathers flaming branches and ties them to Shere Khan\ of fire , the tiger panics and runs off.\n\nBagheera and Baloo to the edge of the Man-Village is still hesitant to go there . His mind soon changes when he is smitten by a beautiful young girl from the village who is coming down by the riverside to fetch water . After noticing Mowgli retrieves it for her and follows her into the Man-Village chooses to stay in the Man-Village and Bagheera is safe and happy with his own kind.\n\nIn 1967 , Benjamin Braddock College , California , visibly uncomfortable as his parents deliver accolades and neighborhood friends ask him about his future plans , evades those who try to congratulate him . Mrs. Robinson is coerced inside to have a drink and Mrs. Robinson 's room to see her portrait and then enters the room naked , making it clear that she is available to him . Benjamin hotel.\n\nBenjamin spends the remainder of the summer drifting around in the pool by day , purposefully neglecting to select a graduate school , and seeing Mrs. Robinson Robinson pesters her one evening , Mrs. Robinson . Both Mr. Robinson 's parents encourage him to call Elaine Robinson on a date but tries to sabotage it by ignoring her , driving recklessly and taking her to a strip club . After Elaine has a change of heart , realizes how rude he has been to her , and discovers that Elaine hotel but when the staff greet Benjamin Gladstone Robinson correctly guesses that he has been having an affair with a married woman and accepts his assurances that the affair is now over . To preempt a furious Mrs. Robinson her version of their affair , Benjamin that the married woman was her mother . Elaine . Benjamin . After pestering her to marry him for several days , Benjamin . However , Mr. Robinson after learning about the affair , confronts Benjamin at his rooming house , and threatens to put him behind bars if Benjamin Robinson to drop out of college and takes her away to marry Carl in search of Elaine breaks into the Robinson Robinson visits Carl\ Barbara that very morning . He rushes to the church and arrives just as Elaine screams out `` Ben ! '' and starts to run toward him . A brawl ensues as guests try to stop Elaine from leaving together . Elaine manages to keep the guests at bay by jamming a large cross into the doors of the church . Both he and Elaine Am Heywood Floyd Station V for a layover on his trip to Clavius Base States outpost on the Moon has a videophone call with his daughter , he deflects questions from his Soviet scientist friend and her colleague about rumors of a mysterious epidemic at Clavius speaks to a meeting of Clavius . Floyd to the artifact , a monolith identical to the one encountered by the ape-men . Sunlight States spacecraft Discovery . On board are mission pilots and scientists Dr. David Bowman Frank Poole 's operations are controlled by the ship\ 's computer , a HAL '' . Hal raises concerns about the nature of the mission to Bowman reports the imminent failure of an antenna control device . The astronauts retrieve it in an extravehicular activity ( EVA suggests reinstalling the device and letting it fail so the problem can be found . Mission Control 9000 indicate that Hal says the discrepancy must be due to human error . Concerned about Hal\ and Poole pod to talk without Hal if he is proven wrong . Hal is on a space walk outside his EVA takes control of the pod , severs his oxygen hose and sets him adrift . Bowman , Hal returns to the ship with Poole\ refuses to let him in , stating that the astronauts\ ' plan to deactivate him jeopardizes the mission . Bowman 's processor core . Hal , then pleads with him to stop , and finally expresses fear . As Bowman 's higher intellectual functions , Hal Bell . When Bowman , a prerecorded video message from Floyd . Only Hal , Bowman One pod to investigate another monolith orbiting the planet . The pod is pulled into a vortex of colored light , the Star Gate races across vast distances of space , viewing bizarre cosmological phenomena and strange landscapes of unusual colors.\n\nBowman finds himself in a bedroom appointed in the neoclassical style . He sees , and then becomes , older versions of himself , first standing in the bedroom , middle-aged and still in his spacesuit , then dressed in leisure attire and eating dinner , and finally as an old man lying in the bed . A monolith appears at the foot of the bed , and as Bowman Child , gazing at it.\n\nSet in and around New York City War Follies Brice Arnstein following her debut performance . They continue to meet occasionally over the years , becoming more romantically involved as Fanny\ eventually seduces Fanny Berengaria agrees to marry Fanny eventually returns to Ziegfeld 's various business ventures fail , forcing them to move into an apartment . Refusing financial support from his wife , he becomes involved in a bonds scam and is imprisoned for embezzlement for eighteen months.\n\nFollowing Nicky\ agree to separate.\n\nIn late 1890s Wyoming Cassidy in the Wall Gang Kid ( Wyoming ) to discover that the rest of the gang , irked at Butch\ Logan to a knife fight over the gang\ 's leadership . Butch 's idea to rob the Union Pacific Overland Flyer and Sundance 's lover , schoolteacher Etta Place.\n\nOn uses too much dynamite to blow open the safe , blowing up the baggage car . As the gang scrambles to gather up the money , a second train arrives carrying a six-man team of lawmen pursuing Butch , who unsuccessfully try to hide out in the brothel and to seek amnesty from the friendly Sheriff Bledsoe and Sundance Baltimore Lefors and Sundance that the posse has been paid by Union Pacific H. Harriman and Sundance and Etta , which Butch is dismayed by the living conditions and regards the country with contempt , but Butch attempts to teach them the language . With her as an accomplice , they become successful bank robbers known as Los Bandidos Yanquis 's posse is still after them.\n\nButch suggests `` going straight '' , and he and Sundance Garris and Sundance has ever shot someone . Etta decides to go back to the United States.\n\nButch steal a payroll and the mules carrying it , and arrive in a small town . A boy recognizes the mules\ ' brand and alerts the local police , leading to a gunfight with the outlaws . They take cover in a building but are both seriously wounded , after Butch provides cover fire . As dozens of Bolivian soldiers surround the area , Butch . They charge out of the building guns blazing.\n\nOliver Barrett IV Coast College `` Jenny , a quick-witted , working-class Radcliffe College reveals her plans to study in Paris is upset that he does not figure in those plans . He proposes , she accepts , and they travel to the Barrett 's parents , who are judgmental and unimpressed with her . Later Oliver\ . After graduation Oliver marry nonetheless.\n\nWithout his father\ 's financial support , the couple struggle to pay Oliver\ Law School works as a teacher . Oliver York City is told that Jenny of her condition , but she finds out after confronting her doctor . Oliver , but she declines to go , wanting only to spend time with him . To pay for Jenny\ seeks money from his estranged father , who asks him if he has `` gotten a girl in trouble . '' Oliver makes funeral arrangements with her father , then asks for Oliver 's last wish is made when she asks him to embrace her tightly before she dies . As grief-stricken Oliver York City as soon as he heard the news about Jenny tells him , `` Jenny\ 'm sorry , '' to which Oliver Love walks back alone to the outdoor ice rink , where Jenny International Airport Airlines ( TGA 707 flight crew misjudge their turn from Runway manager Mel Bakersfeld Lancaster . A customer relations agent Tanya Livingston Seberg ( Dean Martin captain scheduled to be the checkride captain for the airline to evaluate Captain Anson Harris 2 to Rome 's flagship international service , named The Golden Argosy 707 . Although Demerest 's sister , Sarah Meighen Bisset mechanic Joe Patroni Kennedy 's disabled plane blocking Runway and Tanya Ada Quonsett Hayes Diego . Guerrero Heflin ticket aboard The Golden Argosy Ocean , will collect the insurance money of $ 225,000 . His erratic behavior at the airport , including using his last cash to buy the insurance policy and mistaking a U.S. Customs finds a Special Delivery . might be doing something desperate , goes to the airport to try to dissuade him . She informs airport officials that he had been fired from a construction job for `` misplacing '' explosives and that the family\ 's financial situation was desperate.\n\nAda manages to evade the TGA Angeles . When the Golden Argosy 's presence and possible intentions , they turn the plane back toward Chicago is discovered , her help is enlisted by the crew to get to D.O.\ goes back into the passenger cabin and tries to persuade D.O . briefly considers giving Vernon . has a bomb . D.O . dies instantly and is blown out of the aircraft through the hole in the fuselage caused by the explosion . Gwen unusable due to bad weather , they return to Lincoln International to the bomb damage , Captain Demerest , who is `` taxi-qualified '' on Boeing 's damaged aircraft to land . By exceeding the Boeing frees the stuck jet without damage , allowing Runway 29 to be reopened just in time for the crippled Golden Argosy is enjoying her reward of free first-class travel on TGA , an undercover police detective is following Alain Charnier 's hitman , Pierre Nicoli plans to smuggle $ 32 million worth of heroin into the United Devereaux York York City `` Popeye and Buddy '' Russo . After seeing a drug transaction take place in a bar , Cloudy and Cloudy , where The Three Degrees Webb Gets to Go to the Moon notices Salvatore '' Boca , entertaining mobsters involved in narcotics . They decide to tail the couple , and soon learn that the Bocas are involved in some kind of criminal operation . They soon establish a link between the Bocas Weinstock learns from an informant that a massive shipment of heroin will arrive in the New York Simonson ' phones . They use several ruses to obtain additional information . Popeye are joined in the investigation by a federal agents Mulderig Devereaux\ York City 's chemist tests a sample of the heroin and declares it the purest he has ever seen , establishing that the shipment could make as much as $ 32 million on a half-million dollar investment . Boca 's desire to return to France , with more experience in smuggling , urges patience , knowing Boca\ York and escapes , waving tauntingly on the departing subway shuttle . To avoid being tailed , he has Sal Boca D.C. asks for a delay to avoid the police . Charnier . On the flight back to New York offers to kill Popeye objects , knowing that Popeye insists , however , saying they will be back in France attempts to shoot Popeye 's apartment complex but misses . Popeye , who boards an elevated train at the Bay 50th Street Station . Doyle Avenue works his way forward through the carriages , shoots a policeman who tries to intervene and then hijacks the motorman at gunpoint forcing him to drive straight through the next station , also shooting the train conductor who gets too close . The motorman passes out and they are just about to slam into another , stationary , train , when an emergency trackside brake engages violently hurling the assassin against a glass window . Popeye , he turns to run but is shot dead by Popeye impounds Devereaux\ . In a police garage , he and his team take it apart piece by piece , searching for the drugs , but seemingly come up empty-handed . Then Cloudy , who delivers the Lincoln drives to an old factory on Wards Island and about a dozen others , and deliver the drugs . After Charnier 's chemist tests one of the bags and confirms its quality . Charnier . With their transaction complete , Charnier drive off in the Lincoln Doyle . The police chase the Lincoln is killed with two shotgun blasts during a shootout with the police and most of the other criminals surrender.\n\nCharnier , however , escapes into the old warehouse and Popeye joining in the hunt . When Popeye kills , however , is not Charnier . Undaunted , Popeye that he will get Charnier runs into another room , and a few seconds later , a single gunshot is heard.\n\nTitle cards before the closing credits note that Joel Weinstock Boca Boca served four years in a federal penitentiary for conspiracy ; and Charnier and Cloudy , a poor Jewish milkman living in the Ukrainian village of Anatevka of Settlement Russia of Anatevka meets Perchik , who admonishes them for talking but doing nothing about news of Jews invites Perchik tutoring his daughters.\n\nTevye arranges for his oldest daughter , Tzeitel Wolf is in love with her childhood sweetheart , Motel Kamzoil Wolf realizes that Tzeitel and yields to his daughter\ 's demands.\n\nIn order to convince his wife Golde should not be married to Lazar Wolf claims to have had a nightmare . He says that Golde\ is supposed to marry Motel Wolf\ , threatened to kill Tzeitel concludes that the dream was a message from their ancestors , and Tzeitel arrange to be married.\n\nMeanwhile , Tevye\ , and Perchik and the place of old religious traditions in a changing world . The two dance together , which is considered forbidden by Orthodox Jewish tells Hodel and Motel\ Wolf tries to speak to Lazar about the Torah refuses to listen , arguing that the wedding should have been his all along . Minutes later , another argument breaks out over whether a girl should be able to choose her own husband . Perchik to dance with him.\n\nThe crowd gradually warms to the idea and Tevye , then Motel , join in dancing . The wedding proceeds with great joy . Suddenly , the military presence in the town and the constable arrive and begin a pogrom , the `` demonstration '' which he had earlier warned Tevye is wounded in the scuffle with the tsar\ 's men ; however , he allows the men to continue destroying property in the village . Tevye angrily orders them to clean up instead of standing around . Tevye allowed this to happen to them.\n\nIn its original theatrical release , the film was shown with an intermission and entr\'acte music . [ 4 ] \n\nMonths later , Perchik for the revolution . He proposes to Hodel , he is furious that they have decided to marry without his permission , but he again relents because they love each other . Tevye his reasons for consenting to their daughter\ 's marriage , which leads them to re-evaluate their own arranged marriage . Tevye ultimately realize that , despite having been paired by a matchmaker , they do love each other.\n\nWeeks later , Perchik and is exiled to Siberia decides to join him there . She promises Tevye that she and Perchik and Motel finally buys the sewing machine for which he has long scrimped and saved.\n\nTevye\ 's third daughter Chava Christian . Tevye to be distant friends with Fyedka eventually works up the courage to ask Tevye\ , Tevye or from even mentioning his name . The next morning , Fyedka elope and are married in a Russian Orthodox tells Tevye is dead to the family and that they shall forget her altogether . Chava to accept her marriage . In a soliloquy , Tevye marrying a non-Jew . He accuses her of abandoning the Jewish faith and disowns her.\n\nOne winter day , the Jews are notified that they have three days to leave the village or be forced out by the government . Tevye , Palestine States.\n\nYente , plans to emigrate to Jerusalem with an embrace before departing . Lazar Wolf , to live with his former brother in law , whom he detests , but `` a relative is a relative '' . Lazar share one last embrace before departing.\n\nTevye receives letters from Hodel stays in the Siberian prison . It is hoped that when Perchik States . Chava come to Tevye\ , Poland by murmuring under his breath `` And God to repeat his words to Chava calls out to Chava , telling them where they will be living in New York silently watches as the mass evacuation of Anatevka spots the fiddler and motions to him to come along , symbolizing that even though he must leave his town , his traditions will always be with him.\n\nJames Bond\xe2\x80\x94Agent Stavro Blofeld operatives across the world . He eventually finds him at a facility where Blofeld kills a test subject , and later the `` real '' Blofeld Wint Kidd suspects that South African diamonds are being stockpiled to depress prices by dumping , and orders Bond Franks travels to Amsterdam Case intercepts and kills him , then switches IDs is Bond and Bond Angeles ' corpse.\n\nAt the airport Bond ally Felix Leiter Vegas ' body is cremated and the diamonds are passed on to another smuggler , Shady Tree is nearly killed by Wint when they put him into a coffin and send it to a cremation oven , but Tree ' body were fakes planted by Bond tells Leiter House Whyte works as a stand-up comedian . Bond watches Tree\ has been killed by Wint , who did not know that the diamonds were fake.\n\nAt the craps table Bond O\'Toole members ambush them , throwing O\'Toole spends the rest of the night with Tiffany Case Circus and instead flees , passing off the diamonds to the next smuggler . However , seeing that O\'Toole changes her mind . She drives Bond 's casino manager , Bert Saxby enters the apparent destination of the diamonds : a research laboratory owned by Whyte Metz fakes Metz Hergersheimer attempts to remain hidden , but is seen by security . He manages to evade the guards by stealing a moon buggy and reunites with Tiffany 's activity to the sheriff\ 's office . Bond and Tiffany Vegas Vegas manages to evade all the cars.\n\nBond later scales the walls to the Whyte House\ . He is instead met by two identical Blofelds , who use an electronic device to sound like Whyte kills one of the Blofelds pulls a gun on Bond and Kidd Vegas Valley , using a similar electronic device made by Q . He finds out Whyte and the CIA 's female bodyguards Bambi , they rescue Whyte attempts to kill Bond abducts Case , Bond 's plot to create a laser satellite using the diamonds , which by now has already been sent into orbit . With the satellite , Blofeld , the Soviet Union States , then proposes an international auction for global nuclear supremacy.\n\nWhyte identifies an oil platform off the coast of Baja California 's likely base of operations . After Bond\ , a helicopter attack on the oil rig is launched by Leiter tries to escape in a midget submarine , but Bond and Tiffany on a cruise ship , where Wint pose as room-service stewards and attempt to kill them with a hidden bomb . Bond to hurl himself overboard after being set aflame and Wint then asks James Bond and Tiffany 's wedding , Don Vito Corleone York , who was a Marine War II Adams Fontane 's godson , seeks Vito\ dispatches his consigliere , Tom Hagen Angeles Woltz the part . Woltz , drug baron Virgil '' Sollozzo crime family , asks Vito of involvement in a dangerous new trade that risks alienating political insiders , Vito sends his enforcer , Luca Brasi is garroted during his first meeting with Bruno Tattaglia . Later Sollozzo gunned down in the street , then kidnaps Hagen first-born Sonny pressures Hagen to accept Sollozzo\ 's bullet-proof vest , indicating that Luca survives , and at the hospital Michael 's jaw is broken by NYPD Captain Marc McCluskey 's unauthorized bodyguard . Sonny Tattaglia plots to murder Sollozzo : on the deception of settling the dispute , Michael restaurant . There , retrieving a planted handgun , he kills both men.\n\nDespite a clampdown by the authorities , the Five fears for his sons\ ' safety . Michael and Fredo Greene Vegas attacks Carlo and threatens to kill him if it happens again . When it does , Sonny , Michael Vitelli 's death and realizing that the Tattaglias Emilio Barzini attempts to end the feud . He assures the Five Families that he will withdraw his opposition to their heroin business and forgo avenging Sonny\ returns home to enter the family business and marry Kay gives birth to two children by the early 1950s , and with his father at the end of his career and his brother too weak , Michael relocate to Las Vegas because Tom agrees Tom travels to Las Vegas 's stake in the family\ 's casinos . Michael has fallen under Greene\ suffers a fatal heart attack . At the funeral , Tessio capo , asks Michael Barzini had forewarned . The meeting is set for the same day as the christening of Connie\ stands at the altar as the child\ 's godfather , Corleone York Greene is executed for his treachery and Michael 's confession to his complicity in setting up Sonny\ . A Corleone , garrotes Carlo accuses Michael that Michael is relieved when Michael Corleone , a veteran Catholic in Iraq , a demon of ancient origins with whose history Merrin , actress Chris MacNeil ; she is starring in a film about student activism directed by her friend and associate Burke Dennings board and contacting a supposedly imaginary friend whom she calls Captain Howdy begins acting strangely , including making mysterious noises , stealing , constantly using obscene language and exhibiting abnormal strength . Chris comes downstairs unannounced , tells one of the guests\xe2\x80\x94an astronaut\xe2\x80\x94that he will die in space and then urinates on the floor . Later , Regan\ consults a number of physicians , but Dr. Klein undergoing a battery of diagnostic tests.\n\nOne night when Chris Dennings . Chris 's history of heavy drinking , his death is investigated by Lieutenant William Kinderman interviews Chris Damien Karras 's aberrations are mostly psychiatric in origin , recommend an exorcism be performed . Chris . After Regan '' on her stomach , Karras is possessed . Believing her soul is in danger , he decides to perform an exorcism . The experienced Merrin assisting.\n\nBoth priests witness Regan . Karras , who attempts the exorcism alone . Karras has died of a heart attack . After failing to revive Merrin confronts the mocking , laughing spirit , and wrestles Regan\ 's invitation , it leaves Regan\ . In a moment of self-sacrifice , the priest throws himself out of the window before being compelled to harm Regan Dyer , happens upon the scene and administers the last rites to his friend.\n\nA few days later , Regan Angeles has no apparent recollection of her possession , she is moved by the sight of Dyer\ , who narrowly misses their departure , befriends Father Dyer ' death.\n\nThe film takes place in 1936 , at the height of the Great Depression Hooker , Illinois Coleman Erie announces his retirement and advises Hooker Gondorff to teach him `` the big con '' . Unfortunately , their victim was a numbers racket courier for vicious crime boss Doyle Lonnegan Joliet William Snyder , revealing Lonnegan\ 's cut . Having already spent his share , Hooker in counterfeit bills . Lonnegan\ , and Hooker finds Henry Gondorff , and asks for his help in taking on the dangerous Lonnegan is initially reluctant , but he relents and recruits a core team of experienced con men to dupe Lonnegan Limited , posing as boorish Chicago , buys into Lonnegan\ infuriates Lonnegan , posing as Shaw\ , is sent to collect the winnings and instead convinces Lonnegan 's operation . Kelly Harmon Twist Western Union has tracked Hooker , but his pursuit is thwarted when he is summoned by undercover FBI Polk using Hooker has grown frustrated with the inability of his men to find and kill Hooker con . Unaware is Hooker , his best assassin , be given the job . A mysterious figure with black leather gloves is then seen following and observing Hooker.\n\nKelly\ provides Lonnegan agrees to finance a $ 500,000 bet at Shaw\ and gain revenge . Shortly thereafter , Snyder and brings him before FBI Agent Polk forces Hooker by threatening to incarcerate Luther Coleman\ sleeps with Loretta leaves the building the next morning , he sees Loretta and shoots her dead \xe2\x80\x93 she was Lonnegan\ Salino to protect Hooker.\n\nArmed 's tip to `` place it on Lucky Dan makes the $ 500,000 bet at Shaw\ Dan arrives and expresses shock at Lonnegan\ Dan rushes the teller window and demands his money back . A moment later Polk Snyder agents storm the parlor . Polk , then tells Hooker , reacting to the betrayal , shoots Hooker then shoots Gondorff to get the ostensibly-respectable Lonnegan and Snyder and Gondorff Polk , a con man , running a con atop Gondorff\ and provide a solid `` blow off '' . As the con men strip the room of its contents , Hooker 'd only blow it '' , and walks away with Gondorff.\n\nArchitect Doug Roberts Francisco Tower Duncan , 1,688 feet tall and 138 stories , is the world\ 's tallest building . During pre-dedication testing , an electrical short starts an undetected fire on the 81st floor . Roberts suspects that Roger Simmons 's son-in-law , cut corners . Roberts confronts Simmons , who reveals nothing.\n\nDuring the dedication ceremony , at which Duncan Senator Gary Parker Relations Dan Bigelow orders them shut off to reduce the load on the electrical system . Smoke Francisco Fire Department ) is summoned . Roberts and engineer Will Giddings is fatally burned pushing a guard away from the fire . Roberts reports the fire to Duncan Michael O\'Halloran to evacuate the guests from the Promenade Room Mueller Claiborne Chief Jernigan and Lisolette \xe2\x80\x93 Room and his mistress Lorrie Enterprises Room must rappel down the elevator shaft to safety.\n\nAn attempt at a helicopter rescue fails when panicky partygoers rush the helipad , causing the helicopter to veer off , crash , and set the roof ablaze . Naval Simmons 's daughter . Roberts and the children . An explosion near the 110th floor throws Lisolette rescues the elevator with a Navy Room attempts to commandeer the breeches buoy , which is subsequently destroyed in an explosion , killing Simmons , Parker and Roberts with plastic explosives . Most of the partygoers survive as water rushes through the ruined building , extinguishing the flames.\n\nJernigan gives Claiborne 's death , her cat . Duncan accepts O\xe2\x80\x99Halloran\xe2\x80\x99s drives away , exhausted.\n\nOn the American frontier of 1874 , a new railroad will soon be rerouted through Rock Ridge Lamarr Ridge\ , to shoot the sheriff and trash the town . The townspeople demand that Governor William J Petomane persuades the dim-witted Le Petomane , a black railroad worker , who was about to be executed for assaulting a white foreman . A black sheriff , he reasons , will offend the townspeople , create chaos , and leave the town at his mercy.\n\nAfter an initial hostile reception ( where Sheriff Bart , an alcoholic gunslinger known as the `` Waco Kid , an immensely strong , dim-witted , but philosophical henchman sent to kill him ; when he visits the railroad work site and discovers their interest in the land , the Waco Kid and his thugs ; finally , Bart von Sht\xc3\xbcpp falling in love with him . Lamarr Klux Klansmen , and Methodists.\n\nThree Ridge introduces the white townspeople to the black , Chinese , and Irish 's army . They labor all night to build a perfect replica of their town , as a diversion ; with no people in it , though , Bart , Jim buy time by constructing the `` Gov J Petomane Thruway detonates the bombs with his sharpshooting , launching bad guys and horses skyward , the Rock Ridgers 's thugs breaks the fourth wall , spilling onto a neighboring set , where director Buddy Bizarre Berkeley-style top-hat-and-tails musical number ; then into the studio commissary for a food fight ; and then out of the Warner Bros. . Lamarr 's Chinese Theatre Saddles arriving on horseback outside the theatre . Bart 's escape , and then shoots him in the groin . Bart then go into Grauman\ announces to the townspeople that he is moving on . Riding out of town , he finds Jim Island England Watkins Brody Larry Vaughn was killed in a boating accident . Brody offers his services for $ 10,000 . Meanwhile , consulting oceanographer Matt Hooper 's remains , and confirms her death was caused by a shark\xe2\x80\x94an unusually large one.\n\nWhen local fishermen catch a tiger shark , the mayor proclaims the beaches safe . Hooper and Brody 's boat . Underwater retrieves a sizable great white shark\ 's tooth embedded in the submerged hull . He drops it in fright after encountering a partial corpse . Vaughn and Hooper\ of July 's oldest son , Michael to hire Quint.\n\nQuint , and Hooper 's boat , the Orca lays down a chum line , Quint , estimating its length at 25 feet ( 7.6 m ) and weight at 3 tons , harpoons it with a line attached to a flotation barrel , but the shark pulls the barrel underwater and disappears.\n\nAt nightfall , Quint drunkenly exchange stories about their assorted scars and Quint Indianapolis attempts to call the Coast Guard , who has become obsessed with killing the shark without outside assistance , smashes the radio . After a long chase , Quint heads toward shore to draw the shark into shallower waters , but he intentionally pushes the damaged engine past the safety limits and the overtaxed engine fails.\n\nWith the Orca puts on scuba gear and enters the water in a shark-proof cage , intending to lethally inject the shark with strychnine , using a hypodermic spear . The shark demolishes the cage before Hooper . Trapped on the sinking vessel , Brody surfaces , and he and Brody Island Creed during the upcoming United . However , he is informed five weeks from the fight date that his scheduled opponent is unable to compete due to an injured hand . With all other potential replacements booked up or otherwise unavailable , Creed Balboa , known by the nickname `` The Italian Stallion Jergens is seeking local sparring partners . Reluctant eventually agrees to the fight which will pay him $ 150,000 . After several weeks of training , using whatever he can find , including meat carcasses as punching bags , Rocky `` Mighty Mick , a respected trainer and former bantamweight fighter from the 1920s , who always criticized Rocky meets Adrian Pennino & M Tropical Fish , culminating in a kiss . Adrian\ , becomes jealous of Rocky\ calms him by agreeing to advertise his meatpacking business before the upcoming fight . The night before the fight , Rocky , which no other fighter has done , and prove himself to everyone.\n\nOn New Year\ , the fight is held , with Creed Washington Sam knocks him down in the first round\xe2\x80\x94the first time that Creed takes Rocky with a detached retina in his right eye and hits to the head , and Apollo 's superior skill is countered by Rocky\ calls out repeatedly for Adrian , who runs down and comes into the ring as Paulie declares Creed spies have stolen plans to the Galactic Empire\ Star Leia 's leaders , has obtained the plans , but her starship is captured by an Imperial Star Destroyer Vader hides the plans in the memory of astromech droid R2-D2 , flees in an escape pod to the desert planet below the starships , Tatooine.\n\nThe traders , who sell them to moisture farmers Owen Lars Skywalker , Luke , in which she requests help from Obi-Wan Kenobi finds R2-D2 missing , and encounters `` Old Ben , a hermit who reveals himself as Obi-Wan of his days as one of the Jedi Knights Republic until being all but wiped out by the Empire to what his uncle has told him , Luke as a Jedi Knight , a former pupil of Obi-Wan\ and murdered him . Obi-Wan presents Luke with his father\ 's old weapon : a lightsaber.\n\nR2-D2 plays Leia\ , in which she begs him to take the Death Star and give them to her father for analysis . Obi-Wan invites Luke and learn the ways of the Force declines , but changes his mind after discovering that Imperials have killed his aunt and uncle and destroyed their farm . Obi-Wan visit a cantina in Mos Eisley Solo co-pilot Chewbacca 's ship , the Millennium Falcon.\n\nThe has been destroyed by the Death Star\ Moff Tarkin is captured by the Death Star\ goes to disable . Luke is imprisoned on the Death Star and Chewbacca Vader escapes amid a fierce dogfight with Imperial TIE , the Imperials follow the rebels to the hidden base on Yavin Star joins the Rebel collects his payment , intending to leave . In the ensuing battle , the Rebels leads a squadron of TIE 's X-wing , but Han fighters , sending Vader 's spirit , Luke to destroy the Death Star base . On Yavin awards Luke with medals for their heroism.\n\nIn the summer of 1958 , greaser Danny Zuko Olsson , whose family is returning to Australia tells her that their love is `` only the beginning . '' At the beginning of the new school year at Rydell High School '' ) , Danny , of whom his best friend Kenickie , Sonny are members . Meanwhile , unbeknownst to Danny arrives at school , with her family\ 's plans having changed , with her new friend Frenchy Ladies Ladies Rizzo , and Jan Simcox introduces Sandy Ladies and the T-Birds make fun of practicing football players , including the handsome Tom Chisum and Sandy 's description far more innocent than Danny\ Nights reveals that it was Danny Zuko teases that perhaps she\ 'll meet him again.\n\nAt a pep rally before a football game , Sandy perform as cheerleaders ; there , Sandy flirt . Kenickie Road Balmudo , drives by in a menacing manner . Rizzo and Danny is thrilled to see Danny . Frenchy to a sleepover with the Pink into smoking a cigarette and having a drink of wine at the sleepover . Frenchy to go to beauty school and in an effort to prove herself , tries to pierce Sandy\ sick . Rizzo , I\ Dee arrive in Kenickie\ tries to make Danny , but Danny leaves with Rizzo , Sonny . Sandy , despite his earlier behavior ( `` Hopelessly Devoted to You '' ) .\n\nKenickie and Rizzo , along with his girlfriend Cha-Cha 's and insults Rizzo 's condom breaks.\n\nThe next day , the T-Birds look over Kenickie\ and Kenickie ' '' ) . At the popular hangout The Frosty Palace , after brushing off an attempt by Patty for his behavior at the pep rally , but she rejects him having started dating Tom approaches Coach Calhoun suggests cross-country running ; Danny and angers Tom.\n\nDanny to the Frosty Palace and Sandy and Jan and Rizzo unsuccessfully tries to court Marty , whose hair has turned bright pink , tells a waitress she has dropped out of beauty school and is visited by a guardian angel who advises her to return to Rydell School Dropout and Cha-Cha 's and Kenickie\ Fontaine . All of the students take part in a dance contest that descends into chaos ( `` Born Jive and Sandy pulls Sandy Cha . During the last dance ( `` Blue Moon , Putzie moon the national TV audience.\n\nDanny apologizes to Sandy 's unmoved by his pleas for forgiveness until he asks her to wear his ring , which she gleefully accepts . Danny to angrily throw his ring at him and run off in disgust , leaving Danny '' ) . Meanwhile , Rizzo and asks her to keep it a secret , but the story gets back to Kenickie tells Kenickie 's car and he is eager to race it against Leo\ Road tells Rizzo despite the rumors about Rizzo\ and muses to herself about how her sins are not as bad as they could be ( `` There Are Worse Things , Pink Ladies gather for the race , with the winner receiving the loser\ 's car as a prize . Just hits his head , and Danny using bladed hub caps ( in a sequence paying homage to Ben-Hur wins the race . Sandy , asking Frenchy , I\ Dee ) '' ) .\n\nThe gang celebrates graduation at a school carnival where Rizzo she isn\'t pregnant and they reunite . Danny ' dismay . Sandy and Sandy 're the One That I Want '' ) . As the film ends , the greasers promise to stay together after school ends ( `` We Go Together '' ) and Danny depart in a red hot rod , which takes flight as they wave goodbye to their friends.\n\nA Drax Industries Moonraker Kingdom , head of MI6 Bond 007 , to investigate . En , Bond jet crew and pushed out of the plane by the mercenary assassin Jaws lands on a trapeze net within a circus tent.\n\nAt the Drax , Bond Drax . Bond Holly Goodhead 's personal pilot , Corinne Dufour find blueprints for a glass vial made in Venice discovers her involvement and has her killed by his pet dogs.\n\nBond again encounters Goodhead in Venice 's henchmen . He discovers a secret biological laboratory , and learns that the glass vials are to hold a nerve gas deadly to humans , but harmless to animals . Chang and is killed by getting hurled through the stained glass clockface of the Saint Mark\ finds evidence that Drax de Janeiro , he deduces that she is a CIA . Bond for analysis , who permits him to go to Rio under the pretence of being on leave.\n\nBond survives attacks by Jaws 's replacement , during Rio Carnival Cable Car ' cable car crashes , he is rescued from the rubble by Dolly 's forces capture Goodhead escapes ; he learns that the toxin comes from a rare orchid indigenous to the Amazon travels the Amazon River 's forces , before eventually locating his base . Captured by Jaws is taken to Drax explains that he stole the lent shuttle because another in his fleet had developed a fault during assembly . Bond and Goodhead 6 . The shuttles dock with Drax\ disable the radar jamming cloaking device ; the United aboard another shuttle to intercept the now-visible space station . Jaws and Goodhead reveals his plan to destroy human life by launching 50 globes that would dispense the nerve gas into Earth\ had transported several dozen genetically perfect young men and women of varying races to the space station in the shuttles . They would live there until Earth persuades Jaws to admit that anyone not measuring up to his physical standards , including Dolly attacks Drax\ 's forces and Bond , and the Marines . Drax\ shoots and ejects Drax use Drax\ 5 to destroy the three launched globes and return to Earth.\n\nOn New Year\ in 1976 , world heavyweight boxing champion Apollo Creed Balboa are taken to the same hospital . Apollo to a rematch , but Rocky , supports his choice , and so do his doctors , who reveal that he will require surgery for a detached retina , a condition that could lead to permanent blindness . In a private moment , Rocky , and wants a truthful response to his question of whether Apollo confirms that he did . After Rocky 's new fame attracts an agent who sees Rocky . She happily accepts , and they marry in a small ceremony . Soon after , Adrian reveals that she is pregnant.\n\nMeanwhile , fueled by hate mail , Apollo 's performance was simply a fluke . Determined to rectify his boxing career\ 's only blemish , Apollo out of retirement and have a rematch with him.\n\nRocky , at first , seems unaffected by Apollo\ visits Mickey Goldmill declines , concerned about Rocky\ publicly insults Rocky argues that he knows nothing else , so this is the only way he can provide . Adrian , furious at Rocky begin training , but Rocky\ 's disapproval . Adrian\ , confronts his sister about not supporting her husband , but she faints during the confrontation , and is rushed to the hospital , where she goes into labor . Despite being premature , the baby is healthy , but Adrian 's bedside until she wakes up , and will not go to see his new baby until they can see it together . When Adrian comes out of her coma , she finds Rocky by her bedside , and the couple are shown their new baby , a boy , which they name Robert Jr. quickly gets into shape for the match.\n\nThe night of the match arrives , and Apollo in no more than two rounds to prove the first match going the full fifteen rounds was a fluke . Rocky and outclassed for much of the fight . As with their first fight , this match goes the full fifteen rounds , by which time Creed to win the fight by decision . However , Creed switches back to his natural stance , and in dramatic fashion , unleashes a series of counter punches on Creed gets up on the ropes early while Rocky is able to will himself up on 9 while Apollo the win by knockout , making him the new heavyweight champion . Rocky then gives an impassioned speech to the crowd and holds the belt over his head with a message for his wife , who is watching the fight on TV : `` Yo , Adrian , I did it ! `` \n\nThree years after the destruction of the Death Star Alliance Leia . The Imperial Vader base by dispatching probe droids across the galaxy . Luke Skywalker succumbs to hypothermic sleep , the Force Kenobi to train under Jedi Master Yoda Solo and cuts open the tauntaun he rode there on to keep his friend warm ; they wait there until being rescued by a search party the next morning.\n\nMeanwhile , the probe alerts the Imperial ' location . The Empire to retreat . Han escape with C-3PO on the Millennium Falcon and Leia summons bounty hunters to assist in finding the Falcon , meanwhile , escapes with R2-D2 . He meets a diminutive creature who reveals himself to be Yoda 's spirit , Yoda as his student.\n\nAfter evading the Imperial 's group travels to the floating Cloud City , which is run by Han\ Calrissian to the group , the bounty hunter Boba Fett ; shortly after their arrival , Lando Vader plans to use the group as bait to lure out Luke Palpatine experiences a premonition of Han in pain and , against the wishes of Yoda , abandons his training to rescue them , promising to return and complete his training.\n\nIntending to hold Luke selects Han survives the process and is given to Fett from Jabba . Lando and Chewbacca from departing with Han and flee the city . Meanwhile , Luke in a lightsaber duel that leads them over the city\ 's central air shaft . Vader 's right hand , disarming him , and tempts him to join forces . Luke of murdering his father , but Vader 's father . Horrified drops into the air shaft and is ejected beneath the floating city , where he hangs on an antenna . He reaches out telepathically to Leia to turn back . After Luke fighters and Vader Destroyer reactivates the Falcon\ fleet , Luke\ and Chewbacca with hopes of saving Han.\n\nIn archaeologist Indiana Jones and retrieves a golden idol . He is confronted by rival archaeologist Ren\xc3\xa9 Belloq people . Surrounded and outnumbered , Jones and escapes aboard a waiting floatplane , where he uncomfortably shares his seat with the pilot\ 's pet snake.\n\nJones returns to his teaching position at Marshall College , Connecticut Intelligence that the Nazis are searching for his old mentor , Abner Ravenwood studied at the University . The Nazis know that Ravenwood in Egypt of Ra deduces that the Nazis are searching for the Ark \xe2\x80\x94 the Nazis , their armies will become invincible . The Staff ( used to project a beam of sunlight on a building in a diorama of the city ) is the key to finding the Well , a secret chamber in Tanis , in which the Ark to recover the Ark from obtaining it . He travels to Nepal has died , and the headpiece is in the possession of Ravenwood\ . Jones at her tavern , where she reveals her bitter feelings toward him from a previous romantic affair . She physically rebuffs his offer to buy the headpiece , and Jones Toht on his flight leaving the United threatens Marion returns to the bar and fights the Nazis . During the fight , the bar is set ablaze and the headpiece lands in the flames . Toht and Marion decides to accompany Jones so he can repay his debt to her.\n\nThe pair travels to Cairo , where they meet up with Jones\ . Sallah and the Nazis of Souls 's hand ) . They quickly realize the Nazi and it appears to Jones in a local bar , Jones infiltrate the Nazi . Jones is alive when he finds her bound and gagged in a tent . He refuses to release her out of fear of alerting the Nazis . Jones , and a small group of diggers unearth the Well and acquire the Ark and Nazi Dietrich from Jones into the Well with him before sealing it back up . Jones escape to a local airstrip , where Jones mechanic and destroys the flying wing that was to transport the Ark , Germany remove the Ark , but Jones to London Wild.\n\nThe and Dietrich and Marion , who stows away aboard the U-boat Sea plans to test the power of the Ark . Jones with an anti-tank rocket , but Belloq surrenders rather than destroy such an important historical artifact and kill Marion take Jones to an area where the Ark , dressed as an Israelite and finds it full of sand . Spirits emerge from the Ark tells Marion and the others look on in astonishment as the ghosts are suddenly revealed to be angels of death . A vortex of flame forms above the Ark soldiers , killing them all . Belloq and Dietrich turns its fury on them : Dietrich\ 's head shrivels up , Toht\ 's head explodes . Flames then engulf the remains of the doomed assembly , save for Jones , and the pillar of fire rises into the sky . The Ark\ and sealing it . Jones find their ropes burned off and embrace.\n\nIn Washington , the Army Intelligence and Marcus Brody is someplace safe and will be studied by `` top men '' . The Ark 51 ) among countless similar crates.\n\nA group of alien botanists secretly visit Earth forest . When government agents appear on the scene , the aliens flee in their spaceship , but in their haste , one of them is left behind . In a suburban neighborhood in the San Fernando Valley is spending time with his brother , Michael leaves Reese\ realizes it is imitating his movements . He feigns illness the next morning to stay home from school and play with it . Later that day , Michael , meet it . They decide to keep it hidden from their mother , Mary begins to experience a psychic connection with the alien , including exhibiting signs of intoxication ( because it is at his home , drinking beer and watching Tom ) , and he begins freeing all the frogs in his biology class . As the alien watches John Wayne O\'Hara Man then kisses a girl he likes in the same manner and he is sent to the principal\ 's office.\n\nThe alien learns to speak English by repeating what Gertie Street 's urging , dubs itself `` E.T . reads a comic strip where Buck Rogers . receives Elliott\ & Spell notices that E.T.\ is referring to himself as `` we '' .\n\nOn Halloween and Elliott . as a ghost so they can sneak him out of the house . That night , Elliott . head through the forest , where they make a successful call home . The next day , Elliott . gone . Elliott searches for and finds E.T takes E.T , who is also dying . Mary , Mary while treating Elliott . Their connection disappears and E.T recovers . A grief-stricken Elliott . when he notices a dead chrysanthemum , the plant E.T . reanimates and reveals that his people are returning . Elliott steal a van that E.T 's friends joining them as they attempt to evade the authorities by bicycles . Suddenly facing a police roadblock , they escape as E.T before.\n\nStanding near the spaceship , E.T.\ , Gertie '' , a friendly government agent , show up . E.T and Gertie and tells him `` I\ 's forehead . He then picks up the chrysanthemum , boards the spaceship , and it takes off , leaving a rainbow in the sky as everyone watches it leave.\n\nIn an attempt to rescue Han Solo the Hutt and R2-D2 's palace on Tatooine Skywalker Leia and unfreezes Han arrives soon afterward , but after a tense standoff , is sent through a trapdoor to do battle with Jabba\ sentences Luke to death by being fed to the Sarlacc , Luke 's guards while Leia . As the others rendezvous with the Rebel Alliance returns to Dagobah is dying . Yoda confirms that Darth Vader Skywalker 's father . The spirit of Obi-Wan Kenobi is Luke\ Masters that he must face Vader and become a Jedi Knight.\n\nThe Rebel Alliance has been constructing a new Death Star himself . As the station is protected by an energy shield , Han ; doing so would allow a squadron of starfighters to destroy the Death Star and Leia in a stolen Imperial and his companions encounter a tribe of Ewoks , Luke that she is his sister , Vader troops , Luke , and he tries to convince his father to return from the dark side of the Force.\n\nVader to the Death Star , intent on turning him to the dark side . The Emperor reveals that the Death Star Fleet , Han\ forces , but a counterattack by the Ewoks to infiltrate the shield generator . Meanwhile , Lando Calrissian Fleet Falcon Star\ fleet waiting for them . The Emperor to give in to his anger , and Luke in a lightsaber duel . Vader has a sister , and threatens to turn her to the dark side . Enraged attacks and severs Vader\ entreats Luke and take his place , but Luke as his father had been . Furious , the Emperor with Force throws the Emperor removes the redeemed Anakin\ 's arms.\n\nAfter the strike team destroys the shield generator , Lando fighters into the Death Star flies out of the Death Star\ escapes on a shuttle with his father\ 's body , the station explodes . On Endor reveals to Han that Luke cremates Anakin\ is celebrated , Luke , Obi-Wan watching over him.\n\nIn 1935 , Indiana Jones Che , China sidekick Short Round Scott flees Shanghai . While the three of them are asleep on the plane , the pilots dump the fuel and parachute out , leaving the plane to crash over the Himalayas , Shorty discover this and narrowly manage to escape by jumping out of the plane on an inflatable raft , and then riding down the slopes into a raging river . They come to Mayapore , whose impoverished villagers believe the three to have been sent by Shiva Palace , Indy stones that promise fortune and glory.\n\nThe trio receive a warm welcome from the Prime Minister Palace Lal , Zalim Singh Lal 's questions about the villagers\ ' claims and his theory that the ancient Thuggee is attacked by an assassin , leading Indy , and Shorty kills the assassin , they discover a series of tunnels hidden behind a statue in Willie\ worship Kali chain one of their victims in a cage and slowly lower him into a ceremonial lava pit , burning him alive . They discover that the Thugs Ram stones , and have enslaved the children to mine for the last two . As Indy , and Shorty is whipped and forced to drink a potion called the Blood , which places him in a trance-like state where he begins to mindlessly serve the Thugs , meanwhile , is kept as a human sacrifice , while Shorty breaks free and escapes back into the temple where he burns Indy Lal stops Willie\ Ram retrieves the Sankara fights a hulking overseer , the Maharaja\xe2\x80\x94also Ram\ escapes and leaves the overseer to die in a rock crusher.\n\nThe trio escape from the temple in a mine cart , pursued by Thugs Ram Ram cuts the rope bridge in half with one man\ 's sword , leaving everyone to hang on for their lives . As he and Mola Ram , causing them to glow white-hot . Mola Ram catches the last one safely and climbs up as a company of British Indian Army , arrive and open fire on the Thuggee , Willie return to Mayapore Valley , teenager Marty McFly Parker auditions for the Battle , but is rejected for being too loud . At home , Marty\ is bullied by his supervisor , Biff Tannen is an overweight , depressed alcoholic . Lorraine when her father hit him with his car.\n\nMarty is invited by his friend , eccentric inventor Dr. Emmett Brown unveils a time machine built from a modified DeLorean sets the date to November . Marty , but inadvertently activates the time machine.\n\nMarty finds himself in 1955 without enough plutonium to return . He encounters the teenage George . After Marty from an oncoming car , he is knocked unconscious and awakens to find himself tended to by Lorraine 's younger self for help . With no plutonium , Doc a flyer from the future that recounts a lightning strike at the town\ 's courthouse due the coming Saturday instructs Marty refuses to heed warnings from Marty warns Marty to Lorraine or he will be erased from existence . Doc sets about introducing his parents.\n\nAfter Lorraine to the school dance , Marty , allowing George attempts to force himself on Lorraine , enraged , knocks out Biff follows him to the dance floor , where they kiss while Marty returns to the clock tower and the lightning strikes , sending Marty has survived the shooting , as he had listened to Marty\ takes Marty awakens the next morning to find that George is fit and happy , and Biff reunites with Jennifer appears with Doc , which has been upgraded with hover technology , and warp to the future.\n\nUnited States Naval Aviator LT Pete '' Mitchell Intercept Officer LTJG Nick '' Bradshaw Tomcat Enterprise ) . During an interception with two hostile MiG-28 aircraft ( portrayed by a Northrop F-5 gets missile lock on one , while the other hostile aircraft locks onto Maverick\ . While Maverick , Cougar , defying orders , shepherds him back to the carrier . Cougar gives up his wings , citing his newborn child that he has never seen . Despite his dislike for Maverick\ `` Stinger to attend Topgun [ Fighter Weapons School Air Station Miramar.\n\nAt starts , Maverick , unsuccessfully approaches a woman . He learns the next day that she is Charlotte '' Blackwood instructor . She becomes interested in Maverick , which disproves US 's first training sortie he defeats instructor LCDR Rick '' Heatherly but through reckless flying breaks two rules of engagement and is reprimanded by chief instructor CDR Mike '' Metcalf also becomes a rival to top student LT Tom '' Kazansky 's flying `` dangerous . '' Charlie 's aggressive tactics but eventually admits that she admires his flying and omitted it from her reports to hide her feelings for him , and the two begin a romantic relationship.\n\nDuring a training sortie , Maverick '' to chase Viper maneuvers Maverick can shoot down Maverick , now direct competitors for the Topgun Trophy in a later training engagement . Maverick to break off his engagement so he can shoot it down , but Maverick\ 's aircraft and suffers a flameout of both engines , going into an unrecoverable flat spin . Maverick eject , but Goose of responsibility for Goose\ and others attempt to console him , but Maverick , who reveals that he served with Maverick\ Mitchell Oriskany was killed . Contrary , Viper died heroically , and informs Maverick chooses to graduate , though Iceman Gun calls in the newly graduated aviators with the orders to deploy . Iceman , and Maverick to deal with a `` crisis situation '' , providing air support for the rescue of a stricken ship that has drifted into hostile waters.\n\nMaverick and Merlin 's former RIO flown by Iceman , despite Iceman\ 's state of mind . The subsequent hostile engagement with six MiGs shot down ; Maverick 's death . Upon finally rejoining Iceman shoots down three MiGs one , forcing the other two to flee . Upon their triumphant return to Enterprise and Maverick decides to return to Topgun , Maverick reunite.\n\nDan Gallagher lawyer whose work leads him to meet Alexandra '' Forrest , and daughter , Ellen has an affair with Alex starts clinging to him.\n\nDan spends a second unplanned evening with Alex tries to leave , she cuts her wrists in a suicide attempt . He helps her bandage the cuts and then leaves . He thinks the affair is forgotten , but she shows up at various places to see him . She waits at his office one day to apologize and invites him to a performance of Madame Butterfly then phones his home at all hours , claiming that she is pregnant and plans to keep the baby . Although he wants nothing to do with her , she argues that he must take responsibility . After he changes his home phone number , she shows up at his apartment ( which is for sale ) and meets Beth goes to Alex\ , but this does not deter Alex , and Ellen approaches the police to apply for a restraining order against Alex kills Ellen\ tells Beth 's supposed pregnancy . Enraged , she demands that Dan calls Alex knows about the affair . Beth that she will kill her if she persists . Without Dan 's knowledge , Alex from school and takes her to an amusement park . Beth is . She drives around frantically searching and rear-ends a car stopped at an intersection . Beth later takes Ellen 's release from the hospital , she forgives Dan 's apartment and attacks her , choking her and coming close to strangling her . He stops himself , but as he does , she lunges at him with a kitchen knife . He overpowers her but decides to put the knife down and leave , while Alex confronts them about having her arrested.\n\nBeth prepares a bath for herself when Alex , nervously fidgeting ( which causes Alex . Dan into the bathtub , and seemingly drowns her . She suddenly emerges from the water , swinging the knife . Beth 's gun , shoots Alex ' house . As Dan is waiting for him . They embrace and proceed to the living room as the camera focuses on a picture of them and Ellen.\n\nCharlie Babbitt to Los Angeles is holding the cars at the port due to the cars failing emissions regulations . Charlie learns that his estranged father has died , he and his girlfriend Susanna , Ohio Roadmaster Babbitt spirits Raymond becomes upset with the way Charlie asks Raymond\ Gerald R. Bruner 's return , but he refuses . Charlie refuses to fly back to Los Angeles learns more about Raymond actually lived with the family when Charlie Man '' , was actually Raymond.\n\nThey insists on sticking to his routines , which include watching Judge Wapner . He also objects to traveling on the interstate after they pass a bad accident.\n\nAfter the Lamborghinis finds himself $ 80,000 in the hole and hatches a plan to return to Las Vegas and Raymond has made enough to cover his debts and has reconciled with Susanna Vegas.\n\nBack Angeles meets with Dr. Bruner . Charlie is shown to be unable to decide for himself what he wants . Charlie he is happy to have him as his brother.\n\nCharlie takes Raymond train with Dr. Bruner promises Raymond `` Indiana , Jr Scout National Park . While scouting caves , Indy and steals it from them , hoping to donate it to a museum . The men give chase through a passing circus train , leaving Indy escapes , but the local sheriff makes him return the cross to the robbers , who immediately turn it over to a mysterious benefactor wearing a Panama Hat 's bravery , the leader of the robbers gives Indy battles `` Panama Hat . A violent gale ensues , and Indy Brody\ , Indy Donovan Jones , has vanished while searching for the Holy Grail receives Henry\ diary via mail from Venice and Marcus , where they meet Henry\ Elsa Schneider was last seen , Indy discover a set of half-flooded catacombs that house the tomb of a First Crusade had used , revealing the location of the Grail of the Cruciform Sword from evildoers . Indy capture one of the Brotherhood , who tells Indy is being held after Indy , not the Grail reveals a map drawn by Henry , which begins in Alexandretta removes the map from the diary , gives it to Marcus , to rendezvous with their old friend Sallah.\n\nIndy head to a Nazi-controlled castle where Henry finds Henry and Donovan and are using the Joneses to find the Grail is captured in Hatay . After escaping from the castle , Henry that the Grail at a book burning rally in Berlin . They board a Zeppelin , but the Nazis fighters.\n\nThe two meet up with Sallah , where they learn of Marcus\ 's location , using the map possessed by Marcus , the Sultan has given the Nazis , Henry find the Nazi . During the battle , Henry Colonel Ernst Vogel from the tank ; Kazim pursues the tank on horseback and , with the aid of Sallah and Marcus , and barely escapes before the tank goes over a cliff , sending Vogel , Marcus catch up with the surviving Nazis and Elsa Grail shoots and mortally wounds Henry to risk his life in the traps to find the Grail and Elsa safely overcomes the traps and reaches the Grail\ , which is hidden among dozens of false grails ; only the true Grail purposefully selects a golden chalice studded with emeralds for Donovan selects a simple wooden cup , and the knight tells him that he has `` chosen wisely , '' but warns that the Holy Grail fills the Grail , healing him instantly . Disregarding the knight\ 's warning , Elsa and attempts to leave with it . The temple begins to collapse and after the Grail falls to her death trying to recover it . Indy persuades him to leave it . The Joneses , Marcus escape the temple and ride off into the sunset.\n\nSam Wheat Jensen with the help of Sam\ Bruner confides in Carl 's offer of assistance . That night , Sam are attacked by a mugger who shoots and kills Sam sees Molly crying over his body and discovers he is now a ghost , invisible and unable to interact with the mortal world.\n\nMolly remains distraught in the days after Sam\ remains close to her . Carl take a walk with him and Sam returns , Sam follows the mugger to his Brooklyn Lopez 's residence , Sam Mae Brown speaking . Sam that she is in danger . To allay Molly\ Mae could know . Molly 's address to Carl but they show her Oda Mae\ follows Carl are working together . Carl rob Sam uses to obtain Sam\ Miller then persuades Oda Mae . Before Carl Mae Miller desperately searches for the money , Sam goes to Molly Mae and Willie Mae\ warns her and her sisters to take shelter . When Willie tosses objects at him , who flees into the street in a fit of panic and is killed by an oncoming car . Shadowy 's ghost down to Hell.\n\nSam Mae 's hand\xe2\x80\x94he convinces Molly that Oda Mae Mae to possess her body so he and Molly breaks into the apartment but Sam . The women run onto the fire escape , to a loft under construction , but Carl Mae pushes Carl takes Molly for the check . Sam and attacks him again . Carl , but the hook swings back , shatters the window and it slides down , fatally impaling and killing Carl 's ghost for Hell.\n\nSam can now hear him . A heavenly light shines in the room , illuminating Sam\ share a tearful goodbye and one final kiss . Sam Mae 1995 , John Connor Angeles Connor Resistance \xe2\x80\x93 the artificial intelligence that will be given control of the United States\ Day 29 , 1997 \xe2\x80\x93 but was arrested and imprisoned at a mental hospital after attempting to bomb a computer factory . In 2029 , Skynet , designated as T-1000 . The T-1000 Connor ( Model and the T-1000 in a shopping mall , and a chase ensues after which John escape together on a motorcycle . Fearing that the T-1000 in order to get to him , John must follow his orders . They encounter Sarah . After the trio escapes from the T-1000 and Sarah 's history . In addition , it would create machines that will hunt and kill the remnants of humanity . [ a ] Sarah 's creation is Miles Bennett Dyson Systems engineer working on a revolutionary new neural net processor that will form the basis for Skynet.\n\nSarah to Mexico Day in order to prevent Judgment Day and the Terminator of the future consequences of his work . They learn that much of his research has been reverse engineered from the damaged CPU back in 1984 . Convincing him that these items and his designs must be destroyed , they break into the Cyberdyne and the arm , and set explosives to destroy Dyson\ is fatally shot , but he rigs an improvised dead man\ 's switch that detonates the explosives when he dies . The T-1000 . However , unbeknownst to the T-1000 brings itself back online using emergency power . The T-1000 nearly kills John but the T-800 grenade launcher , destroying it . John of the original Terminator expresses relief that the ordeal is over , the Terminator to assist in lowering it into the vat of molten steel , since it is unable to `` self-terminate '' . Although John before it is lowered into the vat , giving a final thumbs-up as it disappears into the molten steel . John drive down a highway and Sarah , can learn the value of human life , maybe we can too . `` \n\nIn the fictional city of Agrabah places near the Jordan River , the Grand , and his parrot Iago of Wonders identifies a street urchin named Aladdin Jasmine and his pet monkey , Abu and Jasmine on Jafar\ confronts Jafar 's release , only for Jafar has been executed.\n\nDisguised as an old man , Jafar and Abu finds a magic carpet and obtains the lamp . Unaware grabs a red jewel , and the cave collapses . Aladdin , who throws both Aladdin back down into the cave , though not before Abu , Aladdin , who lives inside of it . The Genie that he will grant him three wishes . Aladdin into freeing themselves from the cave without using a wish , and he uses his first to become `` Prince Ali Ababwa Iago\ plots to become Sultan . When Aladdin and the Sultan becomes angry at them . Refusing to tell Jasmine takes Jasmine home , Aladdin , but he is rescued from drowning by the Genie tries to hypnotize the Sultan , but Aladdin spots the lamp and thus discovers Aladdin\ to retrieve the lamp from Aladdin.\n\nFearing that he will lose Jasmine refuses to free the Genie steals the lamp , and Jafar 's new master . He uses his first two wishes to usurp the Sultan 's identity and exiling him , Abu tries to use his final wish to make Jasmine can not grant the wish as it is beyond his power . Upon noticing Aladdin pretends the wish has been granted to distract Jafar attempts to retrieve the lamp . Jafar , traps Jasmine and his friends with his magic . After Aladdin out of the hourglass , he tricks Jafar ends up trapped inside it , taking Iago transports Jafar\ of Wonders use his third wish to regain his royal title so the law will allow him to stay with Jasmine decides to keep his promise and frees the Genie and Jasmine\ changes the law to allow Jasmine leaves to explore the world , while Aladdin start their new life together.\n\nIndustrialist John Hammond , have created a theme park featuring cloned dinosaurs and prehistoric plants , called Jurassic Park Nublar , the park\ 's investors , represented by lawyer Donald Gennaro invites mathematician and chaos theorist Ian Malcolm invites paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant Ellie Sattler , in addition to two more with a herd of Parasaurolophus.\n\nAt scoffs at the idea , saying it will inevitably break down . The group witnesses the hatching of a baby Velociraptor gives a harsh warning about the implications of genetic engineering.\n\nThe group is joined by Hammond\ and Lex oversees the tour from the park\ 's control room . The tour does not go as planned . Most of the dinosaurs fail to appear and the group encounters a sick Triceratops Nublar stays behind with the park\ 's veterinarian to study the Triceratops.\n\nJurassic Park\ Nedry , a man working for Hammond\ deactivates the park\ 's security system to gain access to the embryo storage room and puts the stolen embryos inside a canister disguised as a shaving cream bottle . The power goes out , stalling the tour vehicles . Most of the park\ 's electric fences are deactivated , allowing the Tyrannosaurus and Hammond\ injures Malcolm . While taking the embryos to the island\ 's dock , Nedry Wrangler helps the park\ 's game warden , Robert Muldoon before the Tyrannosaurus , Tim take shelter in a treetop . They later discover broken dinosaur egg shells . Grant African right.\n\nUnable to decipher Nedry\ and the park\ 's chief engineer Ray Arnold heads to a maintenance shed to complete the rebooting process . When Arnold and Muldoon distracts the raptors , while Sattler 's severed arm . Muldoon and narrowly escaping the Tyrannosaurus stampede , Grant , and Lex heads out to look for Sattler ( who was injured while scaling one of the fences ) and Lex and Sattler restores full power from the control room , allowing them to call Hammond , Tim , and Sattler suddenly appears and kills the raptors . Hammond , and the survivors board a helicopter to leave the island.\n\nIn the Pride Lands , a pride of lions rule over the animal kingdom from Pride Rock Mufasa\ Sarabi\ ( whose name is Swahili the baboon ( with the colorful facial marking of a mandrill ) [ 5 ] who serves as the shaman and advisor . Mufasa the Pride Lands 's younger brother , Scar and Simba and his best friend Nala\xe2\x80\x94to is betrothed\xe2\x80\x94into exploring a forbidden elephants\ ' graveyard , where they are attacked by three spotted hyenas , Shenzi , and Ed . Mufasa , and rescues the cubs . Though upset with Simba forgives him and explains that the great kings of the past watch over them from the night sky , from which he will one day watch over Simba.\n\nScar into a gorge and having the hyenas drive a large herd of wildebeest into a stampede that will trample him . He informs Mufasa 's peril , knowing that king will rush to save his son . Mufasa but ends up hanging perilously from the gorge\ 's edge . Scar refuses to help Mufasa that the tragedy was Simba\ escapes . Scar and Simba Lands.\n\nSimba and Pumbaa ) . Now a young adult , Simba and Pumbaa . She and Simba Lands 's reign . Feeling guilty over his father\ 's death , Simba , who tells him that Mufasa\ . Simba in the night sky , who tells him he must take his rightful place as king . Realizing that he can no longer run from his past , Simba Lands.\n\nAided by his friends , Simba Rock , who had just struck Sarabi taunts Simba 's death and backs him to the edge of the rock , where he reveals to him that he murdered Mufasa , Simba to the ground and forces him to reveal the truth to the rest of the pride . Timon , Rafiki , and the lionesses fend off the hyenas while Scar at the top of Pride Rock begs for mercy and attempts to blame the hyenas for his actions ; Simba Lands manages to toss him from the top of the rock . Scar takes over the kingship as rain begins to fall.\n\nLater , with Pride Rock presents Simba 's newborn cub to the assembled animals , continuing the circle of life.\n\nIn a world where toys are living things but pretend to be lifeless when humans are present , a group of toys , owned by a boy named Andy Davis 's birthday party is moved up a week , as his family ( including his mother and infant sister Molly 's toys \xe2\x80\x93 including Bo Peep . Potato Head the dinosaur , Hamm Dog Woody 's favorite toy \xe2\x80\x93 , to spy on the party and report the gift results to the others via baby monitors . The toys are relieved when the party appears to end with none of them being replaced by new toys , but then Andy Lightyear begins to favor him , making Woody prepares for a family outing at Pizza Planet will choose Buzz attempts to trap him behind a desk , but ends up accidentally knocking him out of a window . The other toys , except Bo Peep , rebel against Woody out of jealousy . Before they can exact revenge , Andy and leaves for Pizza Planet finds that Buzz , still thinking he is a real space ranger , despite Woody\ 's toy-abusing neighbor , a boy named Sid Phillips.\n\nWoody 's house , but Buzz Lightyear plans to launch Buzz tells Buzz as a toy , restoring his confidence . The next day , Woody 's mutant creature toys rescue Buzz is about to launch the rocket and scare Sid leave just as Andy 's dog , Scud gets left behind while saving Woody from Scud tries rescuing him with Andy\ ) . Thinking that Woody as well , the other toys attack and toss him off the truck . Having evaded Scud and RC and continue to chase the truck . Upon seeing Woody together on RC 's batteries become depleted , stranding them . Woody ignites the rocket on Buzz\ into the truck before they soar into the air . Buzz opens his wings to free himself from the rocket before it explodes , gliding with Woody Christmas Day and Buzz . Potato Head . Potato Head\ jokingly asks what might be worse than Buzz 's new gift is a puppy , and the two share a worried smile.\n\nIn New York City Teller York City Police Department '' , the terrorist , ordering that suspended police officer Lt. John McClane wearing only his underwear and a sandwich board with `` I Hate Niggers '' written on it , and threatening to detonate another bomb if they do not comply . After locating a hung-over McClane complies . McClane Carver headquarters . While at headquarters , the NYPD , who introduces them to the binary liquids Simon calls again and demands that both McClane follow his continuing instructions.\n\nSimon sends the two on a series of children\ 's riddles , which ultimately require them to reach the Wall Street boards the subway while Carver answers Simon\ locates the bomb , Simon throws it off the train in the station , derailing the train and damaging the subway station . As McClane regroup with the police , they are met by FBI is `` Peter Krieg in the East German People\ and a mercenary-for-hire . However , Krieg\ Peter Gruber Gruber had killed years earlier in Los Angeles.\n\nSimon is there , to inform them that he has placed a bomb in a NYC and police bands . Simon and Carver and Carver 's next task , the police organize all NYC\ and Carver 's riddles , McClane is using the school bomb as a distraction to draw the police away from the bomb damage at Wall Street and his team used fake repair crews to dig into the Federal Reserve Bank York York City Water Tunnel No then follows the trucks , while Carver 's games.\n\nWithin the tunnel McClane 's men , discovering they have a pre-wrapped roll of quarters on them . Simon escapes through a vent , ending up near Carver 's men who had followed Carver Island Sound 's suspicions that the school bomb ( which had been found using the clues provided by Simon , to destroy the economies of the world . Before Simon jokingly asks him for some aspirin for his hangover , much to Simon\ . After Simon passes a cable splinter to Carver and Carver reports that none of the bullion was on the tanker . McClane at the Canada-US , Carver and his men are in the process of distributing the bullion and planning their escape . The rest of Simon\ and his girlfriend Katya and Carver , armed only with a small revolver , shoots an overhead power line that falls onto the helicopter , crashing it and killing Simon . Carver to call his estranged wife , Holly.\n\nOn July , that has one fourth the mass of the Moon , deploying assault fortress saucers , each fifteen miles wide , that take positions over some of Earth\ Levinson House Communications Director Constance Spano , and his father Julius Office Thomas J. York City Angeles , D.C. , the Levinsons Force 3 , international leaders begin ordering individual counterattacks . Their air forces attack the saucers positioned above the ruins of the cities , but the saucers are protected by force fields . Each saucer launches a swarm of attack fighters , each with its own shield as well , which wipes out the human fighter squadrons and military bases . Captain Steven Hiller jet pilot with the USMC based out of Marine Corps Air Station El Toro Canyon Casse 51 , where Whitmore\ of Defense Albert Nimzicki conspiracy since 1947 , when one of the invaders\ ' attack fighters crashed in Roswell 51 houses the refurbished alien fighter , and three alien corpses recovered from the crash.\n\nWhen eccentric scientist Dr. Brackish Okun , it regains consciousness and attacks . It telepathically invades Dr. Okun\ Whitmore Service Okun reluctantly authorizes a nuclear attack ; a B-2 Spirit , but the saucer remains intact , whilst wiping out the city.\n\nOn July demonstrates the key to defeating the aliens is to deactivate their force fields , and devises a plan to do this by uploading a computer virus into the mothership using the refurbished alien fighter , which Steven enlists the help of volunteers with flight experience , including Russell at Area and David has one last missile to spare , but when the firing control on the missile fails , he bravely rams his jet into the directed-energy weapon port , causing a chain reaction that destroys the entire ship . Human resistance forces around the world are informed of the alien ships\ ' weak point , and successfully destroy the other saucers . As humankind is rejoicing in victory , Steven return to Area and his daughter in watching the wreckage from the mothership burn up , resembling a fireworks display as it enters Earth\ Lovett Mstislav Keldysh Titanic of the Ocean 14 , 1912 , the day the ship struck the iceberg . [ Note 1 ] Rose Dawson Calvert and tells Lovett 1912 Southampton DeWitt Bukater Hockley board the luxurious Titanic emphasizes that Rose\ over the engagement , Rose Dawson , Rose saved her from falling . When Cal deserves a reward . He invites Jack and Rose and Ruth secretly joins Jack and Ruth\ rebuffs Jack\ . After rendezvousing on the bow at sunset , Rose to her state room ; at her request , Jack posing nude wearing Cal\ of the Ocean 's bodyguard , Mr. Lovejoy 's sketch of Rose and Rose of the collision , Lovejoy 's pocket and he and Cal is arrested , taken to the master-at-arms\ ' office , and handcuffed to a pipe . Cal flees Cal . On the boat deck , Cal encourage her to board a lifeboat ; Cal off safely . After Rose boards one , Cal the arrangement is only for himself . As her boat lowers , Rose and jumps back on board . Cal and Jack realizes he gave his coat and consequently the necklace to Rose and Rose and Rose dies of hypothermia [ 8 ] but Rose hiding from Cal Carpathia York City gives her name as Rose Dawson says she later read that Cal Street Crash decides to abandon his search after hearing Rose\ , Rose of the Ocean \xe2\x80\x93 and drops it into the sea over the wreck site . While she is seemingly asleep or has died in her bed , [ 9 ] photos on her dresser depict a life of freedom and adventure inspired by the life she wanted to live with Jack young Rose at the Titanic\ Staircase Shuttle Atlantis Atlantic York City discovers through the Hubble , set to collide with Earth scientists , led by Dan Truman . NASA Stamper insists he will need his full team , consisting of A.J , Rockhound Lennert `` Chick , Bear Noonan Choi 's plan , and they agree to help.\n\nNASA plans to launch two specialized Space Shuttle , Freedom , to increase the chances of success ; the shuttles will refill with liquid oxygen from the Russian space station Mir to approach the asteroid from behind . NASA and his crew through a shortened and rigorous astronaut training program , while Harry\ '' , for the job . During training , Truman are skeptical about the abilities of A.J. 's daughter Grace 's wishes.\n\nWhen a meteorite destroys Shanghai Andropov , to evacuate in the shuttles before the station explodes . The shuttles perform the slingshot around the Moon 's engines are destroyed by trailing debris , and it crash-lands on the asteroid , killing Noonan , munitions specialist Lieutenant Halsey and Tucker , aware A.J , is traumatized by this news , believing he was killed . Unknown to the others , A.J. and Bear 's landing site in their Armadillo.\n\nFreedom 's calculated schedule , the military initiates `` secondary protocol '' , a backup plan to remotely detonate the bomb at the asteroid\ 's surface , despite Truman 's insistence that it would be ineffective . Truman persuades the shuttle commander , Colonel Willie Sharp into space with Lennert seems lost until Independence\ arrives . With A.J and damages the bomb timer , requiring someone to stay behind to manually detonate it . The crew draw straws and A.J exit the airlock , Harry 's air hose and shoves him back inside , telling him he is the son Harry . Harry to bid her farewell . After some last minute difficulties involving both the shuttle engines and the detonator , Freedom successfully triggers the detonator while his life flashes before his eyes . The bomb successfully splits the asteroid , avoiding the collision with Earth safely returns to Earth . and Grace and the other lost crew members present.\n\nThe Trade Federation Republic in preparation for a full-scale invasion . The Republic\ Chancellor Valorum Master Qui-Gon Jinn Kenobi Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray Sidious Lord Federation\ to kill the Jedi escape and flee to Naboo saves the life of a clumsy Gungan Jar Binks , Jar Jar to Otoh Gunga . The Jedi leader , Boss Nass manage to obtain Jar Jar\ , the capital city of Naboo 's queen , Padm\xc3\xa9 Amidala Starship capital planet of Coruscant.\n\nAmidala\ blockade and the hyperdrive is caught in the crossfire , rendering it useless . They land for repairs on the desert planet of Tatooine , Jar Jar , and Padm\xc3\xa9\xe2\x80\x94disguised as one of her handmaidens\xe2\x80\x94visit a settlement of Mos Espa , and his nine-year-old slave , Anakin Skywalker . Qui-Gon within Anakin One 's currency being worthless on Tatooine wagers both the parts and Anakin\ in a podrace . Anakin , leaving behind his mother , Shmi route to their starship , Qui-Gon encounters Darth Maul Sidious\ . A quickly disengages and escapes onboard the starship.\n\nQui-Gon and Obi-Wan escort Amidala so that she can plead her people\ 's case to Chancellor Valorum Senate asks the Jedi Council as a Jedi refuses , concerned that Anakin . Undaunted , Qui-Gon vows to take up Anakin 's senator Palpatine to call for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Valorum grows frustrated with the corruption in the Senate . Qui-Gon are ordered by the Jedi Council , whom they had believed to be extinct.\n\nOn Naboo reveals herself to the Gungans as Queen Amidala Federation Jar leads the search for Viceroy Gunray . During a battle in the starship hangar , Qui-Gon to wait in the cockpit of a vacant starfighter . Anakin droid control ship in space . Anakin and Obi-Wan Maul he lays dying , Qui-Gon requests that Obi-Wan . Palpatine is arrested . Yoda promotes Obi-Wan Knight as Obi-Wan\ presents a gift of thanks to the Gungans during a celebratory parade.\n\nBio-chemical expert Dr. Vladimir Nekhorvich for Ethan Hunt Pharmaceuticals to deliver the Chimera . With Ethan sends agent Sean Ambrose to meet Nekhorvich goes rogue , killing Nekhorvich before his men destroy the plane.\n\nIMF Commander Swanbeck of the circumstances of Nekhorvich\ is responsible . Swanbeck with recovering the virus and its cure , and has him recruit Nyah Nordoff-Hall , Spain and romancing her , Ethan 's ex-girlfriend and he reluctantly convinces her to spy on Ambrose.\n\nEthan Stickell Baird , Australia laboratories are located and Ambrose stakes out Biocyte rekindles her former relationship with Ambrose 's team . At a horse racing event , Ambrose 's CEO C. McCloy a memory card video of Chimera 's colleagues before blackmailing McCloy steals the camera\ 's memory card and delivers it to Ethan has a 20-hour dormant period before it causes death by mass destruction of the victim\ 's red blood cells . Bellerophon discreetly returns the memory card to Ambrose to force him to give up Bellerophon samples were taken by Nekhorvich 's hands . Ambrose injected himself with Chimera . Ambrose to McCloy . Ethan\ to destroy the virus before the exchange can take place . Ambrose , tricks Nyah and raids Biocyte is able to destroy all but one sample of Chimera intervenes , and a firefight ensues , culminating in the sample being dropped on the floor between Ambrose . Ambrose to retrieve the sample ; she instead injects herself with it , preventing Ambrose insists that Ethan is unwilling to do so . Ambrose away as Ethan to wander the streets of Sydney to McCloy 's majority shareholder . He predicts that the price of Biocyte\ after the Chimera infiltrates the meeting and steals the remaining samples of Bellerophon is pursued by Ambrose and Billy , who has wandered to a cliff side , intent on killing herself to prevent the eventual outbreak . Ethan 's men but Ambrose defeats him in a brutal fistfight . With little time left on the 20-hour countdown , Luther at the beach . As Ethan the Bellerophon recovers and points a gun at Ethan throws the canister to Luther 's shot while kicking up a gun from the sand which he uses to finally kill Ambrose injects Nyah in time to cure her.\n\nIMF clears Nyah\ starts his vacation with her in Sydney.\n\nIn Dumbledore McGonagall Hagrid School and Wizardry Potter . Ten years later , Harry . After inadvertently causing an accident during a family trip to the zoo , Harry escape to an island to avoid more letters , Hagrid against the Dursleys\ to Diagon Alley and a pet owl named Hedwig informs him of his past ; Harry\ and Lily Potter Curse Voldemort , the only survivor in the chaos , thus becomes well-known in the wizarding world as `` The Boy Who 's Cross , where he meets three other students : Ron Weasley Granger Malfoy Hall between four houses : Gryffindor , Ravenclaw . Although the Sorting Hat in Slytherin alongside Ron Hogwarts begins learning magic spells and discovers more about his past and parents . After recovering the Remembrall student Neville Longbottom is recruited for Gryffindor\ team as a Seeker , Ron discover a giant three-headed dog named Fluffy then insults Hermione and Ron is guarding the Philosopher\ , an object that can grant its owner immortality . Harry House Severus Snape to physical form . Hagrid will fall asleep if played music . Harry , and Hermione . They discover an already asleep Fluffy 's Snare , and a dangerous life-sized game of chess that almost kills Ron.\n\nAfter discovers that it was Defence Against Arts Quirrell was actually protecting Harry removes his turban and reveals a weak Voldemort , Harry attempts to bargain the stone from Harry refuses , causing Quirrell kills Quirrell 's spirit rises from Quirrell\ unconscious.\n\nHarry recovers in the school hospital with Dumbledore and Hermione also reveals how Harry : when Harry\ a love-based protection against Voldemort , Ron are rewarded with house points for their heroic performances , tying them for first place with Slytherin then awards ten points to Neville the House Cup returns home for the summer , happy to finally have a real home in Hogwarts.\n\nAwakening from a dream of Gandalf battling the Balrog Baggins Gamgee Muil and soon become aware that they are being stalked by Gollum . After capturing him , a sympathetic Frodo as a guide to Mordor 's objections.\n\nMeanwhile , Aragorn and Gimli to save their companions Merry . The Uruk-hai are ambushed by the Rohirrim , while the two Hobbits Forest Treebeard 's group later meets the Rohirrim is being manipulated by Saruman\ Wormtongue 's forces running rampant in Rohan , Aragorn\ , who , after succumbing to his injuries while killing the Balrog , has been resurrected as Gandalf to help save Middle-earth.\n\nAragorn\ 's capital city Edoras releases Th\xc3\xa9oden 's influence and Wormtongue 's plans to wipe out Rohan decides to move his citizens to Helm\ , an ancient fortress that has provided refuge to Rohan\ departs to acquire the aid of the Rohirrim builds a friendship with Th\xc3\xa9oden\ , who quickly becomes infatuated with him . When the exodus comes under attack by Warg-riding Orcs falls off a cliff into a river and is presumed dead . However , he is found by his horse Brego 's Deep 's Deep waiting for them as a night-long battle follows . Using gunpowder-like explosives on a sewer drain that Wormtongue about , the Uruk-hai , Merry , having met Gandalf they were allies , are brought to an Ent Council then tells Treebeard , where they witness the devastation caused to the forest by Saruman\ summons the Ents and they storm Isengard in Orthanc.\n\nAt Helm\ , Aragorn to ride out and meet the Uruks and the Rohirrim while those remaining flee and are slaughtered . Despite this victory , Gandalf 's retaliation will be terrible and swift.\n\nMeanwhile , becoming loyal to Frodo through the Dead Marshes convinces the Hobbits Gate and Sam led by Faramir . After torturing Gollum saves him from being killed , Faramir and takes his captives with him to Gondor city of Osgiliath reveals that Boromir\ . An attacking Nazg\xc3\xbbl , who momentarily attacks Sam to remind him that they are fighting for the good still left in Middle-earth is impressed by Frodo\ . While leading the hobbits once more , Gollum and reclaim the ring by leading the group to `` Her '' upon arriving at Cirith Ungol.\n\nTwo Hobbits and D\xc3\xa9agol discovers the One Ring in the river . Sm\xc3\xa9agol , and kills his friend for it . He retreats into the Misty Mountains twists his body and mind , until he becomes the creature Gollum.\n\nCenturies leads Aragorn , Gimli Th\xc3\xa9oden , where they reunite with Merry . Gandalf 's palant\xc3\xadr . Pippin . Gandalf will attack Gondor\ Tirith 's steward Denethor with him.\n\nGollum leads Frodo Baggins Gamgee Morgul via a \'secret way\ ' - unaware that Gollum . Sauron\ , forcing Faramir Tirith.\n\nGollum ' food , blaming Sam tells Sam and Gollum , where Gollum . Frodo , telling him that he must destroy the Ring for both their sakes . Gollum , but falls down a chasm . Frodo discovers , paralyses and binds him . However , Sam hides as Orcs with them . Sam into the Tower Ungol so they can continue their journey.\n\nAragorn learns from Elrond is dying , having refused to leave Middle Earth . Elrond And\xc3\xbaril 's sword Narsil Men . Joined by Legolas , Aragorn of the Dead of the Dead put on them . Faramir ; believing his son to be dead , Denethor is left to defend the city against the Orc . As Gothmog\ attempts to kill himself and Faramir alerts Gandalf , but a burning Denethor Tirith and his nephew , \xc3\x89omer . During the ensuing battle , they are overwhelmed by the Oliphaunt-riding Haradrim of Angmar . Though Th\xc3\xa9oden\ destroys the Witch-King with Merry\ dies of his wounds . Aragorn of the Dead and win the battle ; Aragorn decides to lead his army upon the Black Gate and Sam Doom.\n\nAragorn\ 's forces and empties Mordor and Sam attacks them just as they reach Mount Doom succumbs to the Ring attacks Frodo . Frodo , who is holding the Ring and killing Gollum and Sam is destroyed and Mordor flies in with eagles to rescue the Hobbits Tirith members . Aragorn of Gondor as his queen . The Hobbits , where Sam Cotton few years later , Frodo Earth Lands with his uncle Bilbo , and the Elves . He leaves Sam Book , which details their adventures . Sam , where he embraces Rosie and Fiona 's parents to a royal ball to celebrate their marriage . Shrek talks him into it , and along with Donkey Far Away 's parents , King Harold Lillian particularly repulsed . At dinner , Shrek get into a heated argument over how Shrek will raise their family , and Fiona and Harold\ worries that he has lost his true love , particularly after finding her childhood diary and reading that she was once infatuated with Prince Charming.\n\nHarold Godmother Charming in exchange for his own happy ending . She implores him to find a way of getting rid of Shrek arranges for Shrek to join him on a fictitious hunting trip , which is actually a trap to lure them into the hands of an assassin , Puss . Unable to defeat Shrek reveals that he was paid by Harold Godmother\ Ever After '' potion that Shrek 's love for him.\n\nShrek and Donkey is now a handsome man while Donkey must kiss Fiona , Donkey return to the castle to discover that the potion has transformed Fiona Godmother and sends Charming to pose as him and win Fiona\ Godmother\ leaves the castle , thinking that the best way to make Fiona falls in love with Charming Godmother a love potion to put into Fiona\ , Donkey , who are arrested by the royal guards and thrown into a dungeon . While the royal ball begins , several of Shrek\ Man\ is too late to prevent Charming from kissing Fiona , Fiona reveals that he never gave Fiona Godmother . In the ensuing melee , Harold ; his armor ricochets a spell cast by the Fairy Godmother is turned back into the Frog Prince gives his blessing to the marriage and apologizes for his earlier behavior , admitting his use of the Happily Ever 's love.\n\nAs the clock strikes midnight , Fiona 's offer to remain humans , and they happily let the potion\ 's effects wear off and revert to their ogre forms , while Donkey , who had previously romanced Donkey Bryce Voldemort Pettigrew attends the Quidditch World Cup and Bulgaria and Hermione Eaters 's dream summons the Dark Mark.\n\nAt Hogwarts Dumbledore `` Mad-Eye as the new Defence Against Arts Tournament of Fire Diggory representing Hogwarts Krum Institute Europe Delacour Academy from France then unexpectedly selects Harry is unable to pull the underage Harry official Barty Crouch Sr. succeeds in retrieving the egg , which contains information about the second challenge . Shortly after , a formal dance event known as the Yule Ball 's crush Cho Chang , and Hermione , making Ron finishes third , but is promoted to second behind Cedric 's sister Gabrielle . Afterwards discovers the corpse of Crouch Sr. , while waiting for Dumbledore discovers a Pensieve 's memories . Harry Karkaroff of Magic Eaters after Voldemort\ Snape vouches for Snape\ turned spy against Voldemort names Barty Crouch Jr. Sr. . Exiting the Pensieve realizes that Crouch Jr. Cup and Viktor and Cedric and transports them to a graveyard where Pettigrew are waiting . Pettigrew with the Killing Curse , who then summons the Death Eaters releases Harry tries the Expelliarmus 's attempted Killing Curse 's wand disgorges the last spells it performed . The spirits of the people he murdered are seen in the graveyard : first Cedric Bryce Jorkins 's parents . This distracts Voldemort to use the Portkey 's body.\n\nHarry tells Dumbledore returned and killed Cedric takes Harry , but inadvertently blows his cover by asking Harry not mentioning a graveyard . Moody 's name to the Goblet and manipulated Harry attempts to attack Harry , Snape McGonagall to drink Veritaserum is imprisoned in a magical trunk as his Polyjuice Potion Jr. reveals to the students that Voldemort , although the Ministry opposes the revelation . Later visits Harry reveals that he saw his parents in the graveyard ; Dumbledore Incantatem after Hogwarts , and Beauxbatons Turner Swann Cutler Beckett India Trading Company James Norrington Jack Sparrow has resigned and disappeared after losing the Navy\ Dauntless . Meanwhile , Jack 's father , Bootstrap Bill Turner Pearl is now a crewman on the Flying Dutchman Jones previously bartered a deal with Jones from the depths ; now Jack ' crew or be dragged to Davy Jones\ by the Kraken , meanwhile , promises to free Elizabeth brings him Jack\ and the crew on an island and frees them from cannibals . Shortly after , Governor Swann from jail , but he is then captured . Elizabeth to find the compass . Disguised as a cabin boy aboard a Scottish merchant vessel , she makes her way to Tortuga where she later finds Jack . After escaping the cannibals , Jack Dalma ' weakness is his heart , which is locked within the Dead Man\ . Jack , Will to find the key to the chest in return for Jack\ tricks Will . Jones from their bargain in exchange for one hundred souls . Will and learns that Jones 's Dice to try and win the key , but they lose . Despite this , Will was on . Jones after him , sinking the ship , but Will , Jack and Norrington 's use of Jack\ Cruces , Will , who all want the heart for their respective goals : Jack ; Will wants to regain his life as a Navy secretly steals the heart and runs off , pretending to lure away the Dutchman\ attacks the Pearl , which kills most of the crew and destroys all but one of the Pearl\ , who briefly flees the battle , returns and wounds the Kraken , realizing the Kraken , tricks him and chains him to the mast so that the crew can escape . The Kraken and the Pearl Jones\ . Jones Royal gives Beckett of Marque , allowing him back into the navy as well as allowing Beckett Jones 's crew take shelter with Tia Dalma . Tia Dalma Barbossa.\n\nIn order to control the oceans , Lord Cutler Beckett Royal Jones the Colours Lords to convene at Shipwreck Cove Court Jack Sparrow Lord Sea Jones Barbossa Turner Swann Dalma Pearl . Traveling to Singapore Sao Feng Lord China Sea . Beckett\ secretly promises to give Jack in return for the Pearl Bill Turner crew travels to the Locker . The crew encounters many dead souls , including Elizabeth\ Swann . Tia Dalma Calypso Jones Swann must always have a captain.\n\nReturning to the living world , the Pearl lying dead on the beach , having been killed by Jones . They are then attacked by Sao Feng 's men . Through a complex series of deals , Elizabeth , who believes she is the goddess Calypso Cove . Jack off the ship as part of the plan to seize control of the Dutchman Feng that the first Brethren Court in human form after she betrayed her lover , Davy Jones . Davy Jones 's ship , the Empress in the process . Feng his successor as Pirate Lord and the crew are locked in the brig of the Dutchman Bill Turner reveals that whoever kills Davy Jones forever . He reiterates that `` the Dutchman Norrington and her new crew from the Dutchman Bill.\n\nThe Black Pearl Cove attempts to persuade the Brethren Court . Davy Jones Dalma 's brig , revealing she is Calypso 's father Captain Teague of the Pirate Code that only an elected Pirate King casts his vote for Elizabeth Brethren Court 's fleets emerge for war . On a sandbank , Elizabeth , Barbossa , Jones parley , trading Will . Barbossa 's piece of eight , all of which are owned by the Pirate Lords . Barbossa , but when Will who betrayed her and made it possible for the first Court vanishes and summons an enormous maelstrom.\n\nThe Pearl battle in the maelstrom . Elizabeth are wed by Barbossa , Jones engage in a duel for control of Davy Jones\ stabs Will gives up his chance for immortality and instead helps Will , whose body falls into the maelstrom . Jack escape the Dutchman 's ship , the Endeavour , the Dutchman ; the crew has been freed from Jones\ . A goes down with his ship while his navy retreats . With Will bid farewell to each other on the beach of an abandoned island . Will , leaving Elizabeth Gibbs has stolen the Black Pearl planned ahead and stole Sao Feng\ alone to track down the mythical Fountain a post-credits scene , set ten years later , Elizabeth watch from a sea cliff as Will gang of criminals rob a Gotham City mob remains , who escapes with the money . Batman Attorney Harvey Dent Jim Gordon City Wayne as Gotham\ and lead a normal life with Rachel Dawes \xe2\x80\x93 are dating.\n\nMob bosses Sal Maroni , and the Chechen , who has taken their funds for safekeeping and fled to Hong Kong interrupts the meeting to warn them that Batman by Gambol finds and kills Gambol up on his offer . Batman in Hong Kong to testify , allowing Dent threatens to keep killing people unless Batman Commissioner Gillian B. Loeb also tries to kill Mayor Anthony Garcia sacrifices himself to stop the assassination . Dent henchmen and threatens him with a seemingly deadly game of heads-or-tails using Dent\ learns that Rachel 's next target.\n\nBruce decides to reveal his secret identity to prevent more deaths . Before he can , however , Dent . Dent appears and attacks the convoy . Batman 's rescue and Gordon , securing a promotion to Commissioner and Dent 's payroll ; Gordon interrogates the Joker must choose one to save . Batman , while Gordon . Batman sent him to Dent\ and disfiguring half of Dent\ escapes with Lau 's funds . The Joker and the Chechen.\n\nColeman Reese Enterprises is Batman 's revelation to interfere with his plans , the Joker is killed within an hour . All hospitals are evacuated and Gordon . The Joker 's ward and hands him a gun , convincing him to seek revenge for Rachel\ then destroys the hospital and escapes with a busload of hostages . Dent goes on a killing spree , deciding the fates of people he holds responsible for Rachel\ eventually apprehends Gordon\ 's love for his family parallels his love for Rachel.\n\nAfter City rigs two evacuating ferries with explosives ; one containing civilians and the other containing prisoners . The passengers have been supplied with a trigger to the other boat\ 's explosives , and the Joker finds the Joker Fox apprehends the Joker into custody , he gloats that Gotham\ 's rampage becomes public knowledge.\n\nGordon and Batman perished and find Dent 's family . Dent , spares himself , and aims to kill Gordon\ 's negligence is responsible for Rachel\ , who was wearing body armor , tackles Dent persuades Gordon 's heroic image . As the police launch a manhunt for Batman destroys the Bat-signal watches as the sonar device self-destructs , and Alfred saying she plans to marry Dent flees from the police , taking Dent\ 's crimes.\n\nIn 2154 , humans have depleted Earth\ Administration for short ) mines for a valuable mineral \xe2\x80\x94 , a densely forested habitable moon orbiting the gas giant Polyphemus Centauri , whose atmosphere is poisonous to humans , is inhabited by the Na\'vi explore Pandora\ Sully , replaces his deceased identical twin brother as an operator of one . Dr. Grace Augustine Program an inadequate replacement but accepts his assignment as a bodyguard . While protecting the avatars of Grace . Norm Spellman 's avatar is attacked by a thanator and flees into the forest , where he is rescued by Neytiri . Witnessing an auspicious sign , she takes him to her clan , whereupon Neytiri\ , the clan\ 's spiritual leader , orders her daughter to initiate Jake Quaritch 's private security force , promises Jake that the company will restore his legs if he gathers information about the Na\'vi , [ 36 ] which stands above the richest deposit of unobtanium in the area . When Grace , and Norm grows to sympathize with the natives . After Jake choose each other as mates , and soon afterward , Jake site . When Quaritch shows a video recording of Jake\ Parker Selfridge admits that the Na\'vi , Selfridge destroyed.\n\nDespite Grace\ could damage the biological neural network native to Pandora gives Jake one hour to convince the Na\'vi , Jake take him and Grace 's men destroy Hometree 's father ( the clan chief ) and many others . Mo\'at and Grace 's forces . Pilot Trudy Chac\xc3\xb3n 's brutality , frees Jake and Grace 's outpost , but during the escape Quaritch regain the Na\'vi\ connects his mind to that of Toruk . Jake of Souls to heal Grace from her human body into her avatar with the aid of the Tree , but she dies before the process can be completed . Supported by the new chief Tsu\'tey speaks to unite the clan and tells them to gather all of the clans to battle against the RDA organizes a pre-emptive strike against the Tree , believing that its destruction will demoralize the natives . On the eve of battle , Jake , via a neural connection with the Tree , to intercede on behalf of the Na\'vi.\n\nDuring the subsequent battle , the Na\'vi and Trudy wildlife unexpectedly join the attack and overwhelm the humans , which Neytiri 's answer to Jake\ destroys a makeshift bomber before it can reach the Tree ; Quaritch suit , escapes from his own damaged aircraft and breaks open the avatar link unit containing Jake\ 's poisonous atmosphere . Quaritch prepares to slit the throat of Jake\ kills Quaritch , Norm and sent back to Earth is permanently transferred into his avatar with the aid of the Tree Andy , Buzz Lightyear , Bullseye , Slinky , Mr. . Potato Head , and the army men . He intends to take Woody with him and puts the other toys in a trash bag to be stored in the attic , except for the army men , who leave . Andy\ 's old Barbie Daycare meant to keep them before Andy\ ' Bear '' ) and the other toys at Sunnyside , Andy\ never runs out of children to play with , and Barbie . Woody attempts to return home , but is found by Sunnyside , who brings him home and plays with him and her other toys , which are well-treated . Bonnie\ explains that he , Lotso Baby , but were lost during a family trip . They made it home , where Lotso 's personality changed ; he lied to Big Baby had replaced all of them . When they found Sunnyside took over it , turning it into a toy prison , and Chuckles took him home for repair.\n\nAt Sunnyside 's toys are horrified at the toddlers\ ' rough play . Buzz to move the toys to the older children\ 's room , but Lotso and restores him to original factory setting , erasing his memory . Mrs Head 's room , sees Andy was telling the truth and try to leave . Andy\ 's henchmen who rely on `` new recruits '' to save themselves from the preschoolers\ ' abuse.\n\nWoody returns to Sunnyside Telephone 's toys accidentally reset Buzz promptly allies himself with Woody . The toys reach a dumpster , but are cornered by Lotso\ reveals Lotso\ Baby into the dumpster . As the toys try to leave , Lotso\ drags Woody , Ken Baby falling television lands on Buzz help Lotso to abandon them and escape . The toys resign themselves to their fate and prepare to die , but are rescued by the Aliens is found by a garbage truck driver , who ties him to his truck\ 's radiator grille and drives away . Woody and the other toys 's house.\n\nWoody leaves a note for Andy . To Andy\ is at the bottom of the donation box and Bonnie passes Woody , and they play together before he leaves . Woody and the other toys witness Andy\ the credits scene , Barbie , and Big Baby and maintain contact with the other toys through letters . After parachuting in , the army men are welcomed to Sunnyside.\n\nAfter , Harry Potter to help him , Ron Weasley Granger Lestrange\ bank , suspecting a Horcrux agrees in exchange for the Sword . Wandmaker Ollivander that two wands taken from Malfoy Manor and Draco Malfoy 's has changed its allegiance to Harry.\n\nIn the vault , Harry is Helga Hufflepuff\ snatches the sword and abandons the trio , leaving them cornered by security . The three release the dragon guardian and flee on its back . Harry Voldemort , and learns Voldemort also realises there is a Horcrux somehow connected to Rowena Ravenclaw , where Aberforth Dumbledore to fetch Neville Longbottom Snape 's return and warns staff and students of punishment for aiding Harry confronts Snape McGonagall gathers the Hogwarts Lovegood\ speaks to Helena Ravenclaw\ performed `` dark magic '' on her mother\ 's diadem , located in the Room . In the Chamber , Hermione cup with a Basilisk of Requirement , Blaise Zabini Goyle , but Ron intervene . Goyle casts a Fiendfyre and his friends save Malfoy . Harry fang and Ron of Requirement 's army attacks , Harry 's mind , realises that Voldemort\ is the final Horcrux telling Snape Wand until Snape to kill Snape tells Harry . Meanwhile , Fred Weasley Lupin Tonks learns from Snape\ despised Harry\ , who bullied him , he loved his late mother Lily worked with Albus Dumbledore from Voldemort . Harry was dying and wished for Snape doe he saw in the woods that led him to the sword was conjured by Snape discovers that he himself became a Horcrux originally failed to kill him ; he must die to destroy the piece of Voldemort\ surrenders himself to Voldemort Forest casts the Killing Curse , who finds himself in limbo . Dumbledore\ within Harry 's curse . Harry announces Harry\ and demands their surrender . As Neville , Harry and many Death Eaters . While Harry in a duel throughout the castle , Molly Weasley in the Great Hall decapitates Nagini mortal . Harry 's fight ends with Voldemort\ Curse explains to Ron that the Elder Wand , who had earlier disarmed its previous owner , Dumbledore destroys the Elder Wand , Ginny Weasley , Hermione proudly watch their own children leave for Hogwarts at King\ station.\n\nThe Asgardian Loki . In exchange for retrieving the Tesseract N an army with which he can subjugate Earth Fury , and his lieutenant Agent Maria Hill Erik Selvig . Agent Phil Coulson suddenly activates and opens a wormhole , allowing Loki . Loki and uses his scepter to enslave Selvig Barton reactivates the `` Avengers Initiative Natasha Romanoff to recruit Dr. Bruce Banner through its gamma radiation emissions . Coulson Stark 's research , and Fury Rogers Stuttgart steals iridium needed to stabilize the Tesseract\ causes a distraction , leading to a brief confrontation with Rogers , and Romanoff 's surrender . While Loki , Thor . After a confrontation with Stark , Thor to S.H.I.E.L.D.\ . Upon arrival , Loki and Stark Avengers and the revelation that S.H.I.E.L.D to develop weapons as a deterrent against hostile extraterrestrials . As the group argues , Barton 's other possessed agents attack the Helicarrier to transform into the Hulk and Rogers attempts to stop the Hulk\ reluctantly fights Barton 's mind control . Loki and ejecting Thor from the airship , while the Hulk . fighter jet . Fury 's death to motivate the Avengers and Rogers , simply defeating them will not be enough ; he needs to overpower them publicly to validate himself as ruler of Earth uses the Tesseract built , to open a wormhole above Stark Tower fleet in space , launching his invasion.\n\nRogers , Stark , Barton rally in defense of New York City arrives and transforms into the Hulk while evacuating civilians . The Hulk and beats him into submission . Romanoff , freed from Loki\ 's scepter can be used to shut down the generator . Meanwhile , Fury\ Security Council Manhattan intercepts the missile and takes it through the wormhole toward the Chitauri mothership and disabling their forces on Earth 's suit runs out of power , and he falls back through the wormhole just as Romanoff goes into freefall , but the Hulk returns Loki to Asgard expresses confidence that the Avengers will return if and when they are needed.\n\nIn a mid-credits scene , the Other confers with his master [ N . In a post-credits scene , the Avengers of Arendelle . After Elsa with her magic , their parents , the King , take both siblings to a colony of trolls led by Grand Pabbie , but alters her memories to remove traces of Elsa\ and Queen shuts Anna can only suppress her power , causing her to become more insecure . When the sisters are teenagers , their parents die at sea during a storm.\n\nWhen Elsa . She is terrified that the kingdom\ 's citizens might find out about her powers and fear her . The castle gates open to the public and visiting dignitaries for the first time in years . Among them is the scheming Duke and the dashing Prince Hans Isles falls in love with at first sight . Elsa\ . When Hans proposes to Anna objects , accidentally unleashing her powers before the court ; the Duke flees to the North Mountain in an eternal winter.\n\nAnna ventures out to find Elsa Oaken\ and his reindeer , Sven 's sleigh being destroyed . On foot , they meet Olaf , who offers to lead them to her . When Anna\ , Hans and Elsa 's minions , who have secret orders to kill Elsa.\n\nReaching the ice palace , Anna , but when she reveals what has become of Arendelle becomes upset , saying that she can not undo it , and accidentally freezes Anna\ , who chases Anna , and Olaf 's hair begins turning white , so Kristoff Pabbie will freeze solid unless `` an act of true love '' reverses the spell . Kristoff back home so Hans 's palace , defeating Marshmallow . Anna by eliminating both sisters . Hans locks Anna killed her . He orders the queen\ 's execution , only to discover she has escaped her detention cell.\n\nOlaf frees Anna , whom Olaf outside , claiming that she killed Anna to break down . Anna ; she leaps in the way and freezes solid , stopping Hans . Devastated hugs and mourns over her sister , who thaws out , her heroism constituting `` an act of true love '' . Realizing that love is the key to controlling her magic , Elsa his own snow flurry to survive the warmer climate . Both Hans and the Duke gives Kristoff promises never to lock the castle gates again.\n\nSixty-five million years ago , an alien race known as the \xe2\x80\x9cCreators\xe2\x80\x9d used devices called Seeds to terraform Planet Earth . In the present day , geologist Darcy Tyril . Industries , which uses it to build man-made Transformer of Chicago government to terminate all human-Autobot joint programs . Although the public believes the Autobots black ops division known as Cemetery Wind Attinger , a Cybertronian bounty hunter working for the Creators , promising to give Attinger if his division manages to capture Optimus Prime Wind in Mexico City kills him when he refuses to give up the whereabouts of Optimus Prime.\n\nOptimus City Yeager inventor , and brings him back to his farm . While his teenage daughter Tessa Flannery over to the authorities after realizing what he really is , Cade , hoping to understand his technology and unexpectedly revives him . Still skeptical of Optimus calls Cemetery Wind and Tessa\ rally car driver Shane Dyson Wind , Lucas 's grenades . Escaping into the desert , they take refuge in an abandoned gas station . Later scans a passing truck and turns into a Western Star Custom \xe2\x80\x93 Bumblebee , Drift \xe2\x80\x93 Wind drone which he stole during the home invasion , Cade 's involvement in the attacks on the Autobots vows to personally kill Attinger 's headquarters in Chicago discovers the remains of Autobots are being melted down to make the drones . Joshua Joyce , is in league with Attinger . He has captured Brains 's head to create the drones and prototype Transformer soldiers Galvatron . In a fit of rage , the Autobots regains his original form by scanning a passing car , where they rescue Brains and destroy the laboratory , but they soon leave after Joshua forces Joshua and Stinger . During the battle , Galvatron\ then arrives and abducts Optimus and Stinger is inadvertently captured alongside Optimus and Shane 's large prison spacecraft hovers over Chicago , Cade , and the Autobots and Tessa called the Dinobots leaves Earth reveal to Cade that `` Galvatron , who gave K.S.I drones so he could transfer his consciousness into the Galvatron 's more , Galvatron and the K.S.I in Hong Kong . has brought it there to use it in the remote Mongolian . Cade of Megatron\ with help from Darcy Yueming discovers Optimus\ , and returns to Earth to retrieve them . Optimus to no longer help the humans because of how they revived Megatron explains to Optimus why he shouldn\'t lose faith in them . At the K.S.I and Attinger , Galvatron . drones , and a battle follows in Hong Kong\ 's group , the Autobots Wind , and his drones . During the fight , Optimus , who become essential to the Autobots\ kills Stinger.\n\nLockdown and the Dinobots fights Lockdown kills Attinger as a threat ) to save Cade to pin Optimus , Bumblebee , and Shane , with Cade and Shane , who kills Lockdown by cutting him in half before using one of his grenades to finish off the remaining drones . Galvatron 's ship leaves Earth tells the Autobots offering to help the Yeagers build a new home ) and lets the Dinobots to hide it away , sending a message to the Creators that he is coming for them.\n\nThirty years after the Galactic Civil War Order Empire Republic and led by General Leia Organa searches for her brother , Luke Skywalker.\n\nOn , Resistance Dameron 's location from Lor San Tekka Ren , while Kylo Tekka 's droid BB-8 , near a junkyard settlement . Kylo using the Force . Stormtrooper FN-2187 Order , and they escape in a stolen TIE names FN-2187 '' . As they turn back to Jakku , they are shot down by a First Order Star Destroyer survives and assumes that Poe and BB-8 , Rey flee the planet in the Millennium Falcon is captured by a larger ship piloted by Han Solo , looking to reclaim their former vessel . The group is attacked by gangs seeking to settle debts with Han . At the First Order\ Base Leader Snoke Hux questions Kylo\ Solo says means nothing to him.\n\nThe Falcon 's map is incomplete . Han attempted to rebuild the Jedi Order and meets with cantina owner Maz Kanata to the Resistance is drawn to a secluded vault and finds the lightsaber that once belonged to Luke Skywalker gives Finn destroys a few planets including the Republic in search of BB-8 , Chewbacca are saved by Resistance , who is revealed to have survived the crash on Jakku arrives at Takodana and reunites with Han . Meanwhile , Kylo and takes her to Starkiller Base , Rey mind trick on a nearby guard.\n\nAt the Resistance , BB-8 , who has been inactive since Luke\ Base , the Resistance , Han , and Finn , and plant explosives . Han , calling him by his birth name , Ben refuses and kills Han , who shoots Kylo pursues Finn to the surface . Kylo in a lightsaber duel , leaving him wounded . Rey to defeat Kylo orders Hux to him to complete his training . Rey escape with the unconscious Finn . On D\'Qar , Chewbacca mourn Han\ follows to the oceanic planet Ahch-To and presents him with the lightsaber.\n\nIn 1991 , the brainwashed super-soldier James '' Barnes base in Siberia 's defeat in the nation of Sokovia , [ N Steve Rogers Romanoff Wilson Maximoff Rumlow . Rumlow . Maximoff humanitarian workers.\n\nU.S . Secretary Thaddeus Ross Nations ) is preparing to pass the Sokovia Accords panel to oversee and control the team . The Avengers are divided : Tony Stark 's creation and Sokovia\ has more faith in his own judgment than that of a government . Meanwhile , Helmut Zemo ' old Hydra ' brainwashing . At a conference in Vienna T\'Chaka . Security , whom T\'Chaka\ , vows to kill . Informed by Sharon Carter ' whereabouts and the authorities\ ' intentions to kill him , Rogers childhood friend and war comrade\xe2\x80\x94himself . Rogers and Wilson to Bucharest and the authorities , but all four , including T\'Challa , are apprehended.\n\nImpersonating a psychiatrist sent to interview Barnes recites the words to make Barnes obey him . He questions Barnes , then sends him on a rampage to cover his own escape . Rogers and sneaks him away . When Barnes regains his senses , he explains that Zemo bomber and wanted the location of the Siberian Hydra , Rogers go rogue , and recruit Maximoff Barton Lang 's permission , Stark , T\'Challa Rhodes , and Peter Parker 's team intercepts Rogers\ Airport allows Rogers and Barnes to escape . The rest of Rogers\ prison , while Rhodes , and Romanoff was framed by Zemo to give him Rogers\ , Stark facility and strikes a truce with Rogers , unaware that they were secretly followed by T\'Challa , who then shows them footage that reveals that the automobile Barnes 's parents , whom Barnes kept this from him , Stark destroys Barnes\ disables Stark\ , leaving his shield behind . Satisfied that he has avenged his family\ 's deaths in Sokovia ' actions by successfully fracturing them , Zemo and taken to the authorities.\n\nIn the aftermath , Stark with exoskeletal leg braces that allow him to walk again , while Rogers . In a mid-credits scene , Barnes , chooses to return to cryogenic sleep until a cure for his brainwashing is found . In a post-credits scene , Parker Base Leia Organa forces to flee D\'Qar fleet arrives . Poe Dameron dreadnought , but after the Resistance convoy . Kylo Ren 's son , hesitates to fire on the lead Resistance leadership and incapacitating Leia . Disapproving Admiral Holdo\ helps Finn , and mechanic Rose Tico Order\ arrives on Ahch-To and R2-D2 Falcon Skywalker . Disillusioned by his failure to train Kylo , and under self-imposed exile from the Force refuses to help \xe2\x80\x93 even after he learns of Han Solo\ 's hands \xe2\x80\x93 and believes the Jedi , Rey communicate through the Force and Kylo to train Rey tells Rey that caused him to choose the dark side , Luke upon sensing that Supreme Leader Snoke to destroy Luke\ Order that Kylo leaves Ahch-To . Luke Jedi 's ghost appears and destroys the temple by summoning a bolt of lightning , claiming Rey to learn from his failure.\n\nHoldo reveals her plan to discreetly evacuate the remaining Resistance members using small transports . Believing her actions cowardly and risky , Poe , Rose travel to the Canto Bight . They infiltrate Snoke\ are captured by Captain Phasma lands on the ship , and Kylo , who says he facilitated the mental connection between her and Kylo . Ordered to kill Rey instead kills Snoke 's guards alongside Rey believes that Kylo , but he instead invites her to rule the galaxy with him . Refusing , she fights Kylo Skywalker\ , allowing the evacuation to begin . Holdo 's fleet as the others flee to an abandoned Rebel Alliance . DJ 's plan to the First Order sacrifices herself by ramming Snoke\ escapes in the chaos , while Kylo Leader frees Finn , who escape after defeating Phasma . When the First Order , Finn attack with old speeders . Rey draw the TIE , while Rose from completing a suicide run against the enemy siege cannon , which subsequently penetrates the Resistance members to escape . Kylo Order\ , to no effect . He then engages Luke , Kylo projection of him . Rey to help the Resistance . Luke and dies peacefully on Ahch-To and Leia tells surviving rebels that the Resistance Bight and Rose and gazes into space.\n\nHaving acquired the Power Stone Stones , from the planet Xandar , Thanos , Cull Obsidian Midnight Glaive\xe2\x80\x94intercept . [ N Stone , Thanos , overpowers Hulk and Heimdall to Earth before being killed . Thanos departs with his lieutenants and obliterates the ship.\n\nHulk crash-lands at the Sanctum Sanctorum York City Banner Strange about Thanos\ recruits Tony Stark and Obsidian Stone , drawing the attention of Peter Parker captures Strange Stone and Parker 's spaceship , Banner Rogers stays behind to guard the Sanctum.\n\nIn Edinburgh and Glaive Maximoff in order to retrieve the Mind Stone 's forehead . Rogers , Natasha Romanoff Wilson Rhodes at the Avengers Facility offers to sacrifice himself by having Maximoff Stone from retrieving it , but Maximoff , which he believes has the resources to remove the stone without destroying Vision.\n\nThe respond to a distress call from the Asgardian ship and rescue Thor seeks the Reality Stone on Knowhere and Groot to Nidavellir create Stormbreaker . On Knowhere Quill , Drax find Thanos Stone kidnaps Gamora Stone from torture . Thanos travel to Vormir Skull Stone reluctantly kills Gamora to meet her on Thanos\ . Stark kill Maw . Landing on Titan , Drax . The group forms a plan to remove Thanos\ Gauntlet uses the Time Stone loses . Thanos deduces that Thanos . Enraged attacks him , allowing Thanos is seriously wounded by Thanos surrenders the Time Stone.\n\nIn Wakanda reunites with Bucky Barnes ' army invades . The Avengers , alongside T\'Challa forces , mount a defense while Shuri Stone . Banner , fights in Stark\ armor . Thor , and Groot , Obsidian are killed and their army is routed . Despite Maximoff\ Stone arrives and reverts time to remove it from Vision\ , but Thanos Gauntlet of all life across the universe disintegrates , including Barnes , T\'Challa , Maximoff , Mantis , Quill , and Parker Hill Fury is able to transmit a signal first . [ N Stark remain on Titan , M\'Baku , Rhodes , Rogers , and Thor battlefield . Meanwhile , Thanos ages and is about to turn into a red giant , pushing the nations of the world to consolidate into the United Earth Government out of the Solar System Centauri 's rotation , and later as the planet moves away from the Sun Peiqiang Jing Qi Chuxiao navigate as it moves out of the Solar Zi\'ang Man-tat Peiqiang\ . To celebrate Chinese New Year Qi Duoduo Jinmai Zi\'ang\ ( Mike Sui Zi\'ang passes by Jupiter 's gravity , causing devastating earthquakes that disable many thrusters across the globe . The four escape amidst the chaos and attempt to make their way out using the stolen truck , but the truck is requisitioned for a rescue mission by the military ; they are to transport an engine component to the damaged thruster in Hangzhou Lei Guangjie , they lose their vehicle , and while transporting the component up the ruins of a skyscraper Han Zi\'ang thruster was fully compromised and the city was completely destroyed , the group temporarily despair . They however find a new vehicle where the on-board engineer , Li Yiyi Yichi space , Liu Peiqiang , the artificial intelligence commanding the space station , has directed it to escape rather than to assist the humans on Earth . He breaks out of forced hibernation and attempts to stop the spacecraft along with Russian cosmonaut Makarov Peiqiang 's group arrive at Sulawesi has moved past Jupiter\ limit and will be destroyed anyway , with the restored thrust unable to propel it away . The group despairs on learning this , but Liu Qi 's hydrogen-abundant atmosphere to blow Earth Yiyi engine\ 's power to fire a beam high enough to ignite Jupiter , learning of this , is able to persuade the United Earth Goverment , even though MOSS Peiqiang 's hydrogen ; after disabling MOSS smuggled on-board , he pilots the spacecraft into the cloud between Jupiter , sacrificing himself as the ignition succeeds . Earth is saved from destruction , and continues to move towards the destination star system.\n\nAs the film ends , Liu Qi 's migration , a process to take 2,500 years and still bound with uncertainty , in a hopeful tone.\n\nVariety has been published since December [ 2 ] when it was launched by Sime Silverman York City.\n\nSime Telegraph as publisher and editor . [ 4 ] \n\nIn addition to Sime\ Telegraph York Clipper York Dramatic Mirror original cover design , which is very similar to the current design , was sketched by Edgar M. Miller front cover contained pictures of the original editorial staff , who were Alfred Greason W Sargeant or Chic Lowe . [ 6 ] \n\nThe 's son Sidne ( based on the childish lisping of his name ) who was claimed to be the youngest critic in the world at seven years old . [ 7 ] acquired The New York Clipper . [ 8 ] \n\nAlso in 1922 , Sime Square Daily staffers worked on all three papers.\n\nAfter the launch of The Hollywood Reporter sued for alleged plagiarism in 1932 , [ 9 ] Sime Variety , with Arthur Ungar Bulletin on Fridays Variety but mostly on Monday . [ 10 ] Ungar Schoenfeld M. Pryor . [ 11 ] [ 12 ] The Daily were initially run as virtually independent newspapers , with the Daily news and the Weekly and International had passed on the editorship of the Weekly Variety Green . Green succeeded him as publisher of both publications . Following his death from tuberculosis in 1950 , his only son Syd Silverman Inc. Young Syd\ Erichs oversaw Variety Inc. Silverman Variety York Variety , until the sale of both papers in 1987 to Cahners Publishing Variety A. Byrne Variety 's great grandson , Michael Silverman became chairman of both publications . [ 14 ] Archerd\ for Variety and swiftly became popular in Hollywood broke countless exclusive stories , reporting from film sets , announcing pending deals , giving news of star-related hospitalizations , marriages , and births . The column appeared daily for 52 years until September \n\nOn December Watkins measured one inch shorter with a washed-out color on the front . The old front-page box advertisement was replaced by a strip advertisement , along with the first photos published in Variety gave up using them in the old format in 1920 : they depicted Sime and Syd twenty years from 1989 its editor-in-chief was Peter Bart York Silverman 's son ) running the Daily . Bart Pictures York Times 2009 , Bart No More Up at Variety M. Gray , [ 17 ] after over 30 years of various reporter and editor positions in the newsroom . [ 18 ] \n\nIn October Business Information , which had been parent to Cahner\ in the United Media Corporation [ 20 ] PMC Hollywood Guild strike has been considered Variety\ 2012 , Jay Penske and CEO , announced that the website\ 's paywall would come down , the print publication would stay , and he would invest more into Variety\ 2013 , Variety Penske Eller , Film Littleton , TV , and Andrew Wallenstein , Digital.\n\nThe Variety 19 , 2013 with the headline `` Variety Ankles Daily Pub Hubbub [ 23 ] \n\nIn October and Wallenstein , with Littleton 2014 , Penske Media Corporation ) entered into an agreement with Reuters to syndicate news from Variety Latino-Powered to distribute leading entertainment news to the international news agency\ 's global readership . This dissemination comes in the form of columns , news stories , images , video , and data-focused products . In July was awarded a Los Angeles Area Emmy Award Academy Entertainment Program Studio films and television programs through conversations with acclaimed actors.\n\nA significant portion of the publication\ 's advertising revenue comes during the film-award season leading up to the Academy Awards Season to double or triple its usual page count . These advertisements are the studios\ ' attempt to reach other Hollywood Awards Globes \n\nA Lovelace Boreman ( Dolly Sharp recommends that Linda Young Reems 's clitoris is located in her throat , and after he helps her to develop her oral sex skills , the infatuated Linda Connors finally meets a man who can make her happy , agreeing to marry him . The movie ends with the line `` The End . And Deep Throat to you all . `` \n\nThe film follows two juxtaposed families . One is the Northern Representative Austin Stoneman Representative Thaddeus Stevens [ 14 ] his daughter , and two sons . The other is the Southern Camerons : Dr. Cameron , the elder Stoneman Cameron estate in South Carolina South Cameron Stoneman War and two of the Cameron women are rescued by Confederate home . Ben Cameron of Petersburg '' , but he is also wounded and captured . He is then taken to a Union , D.C.\n\nDuring his stay at the hospital , he is told that he will be hanged . Also at the hospital , he meets Elsie Stoneman takes Cameron\ to tend her son , to see Abraham Lincoln Cameron to pardon Ben is assassinated at Ford\ , his conciliatory postwar policy expires with him . In the wake of the president\ 's death , Austin Stoneman , employing harsh measures that Griffith Era Lynch Carolina policies firsthand . During the election , in which Lynch Carolina fights back by forming the Ku Klux Klan , out of loyalty to her father , breaks off her relationship with Ben , Flora Cameron , a freedman and soldier who is now a captain . He confronts Flora . Trapped on a precipice , Flora she will jump if he comes any closer . When he does , she leaps to her death . Having run through the forest looking for her , Ben home . In response , the Klan , tries him , finds him guilty , and lynches him.\n\nLynch then orders a crackdown on the Klan 's murder . He also secures the passing of legislation allowing mixed-race marriages . Dr. Cameron 's Klan Stoneman Cameron soldiers who agree to hide them . An intertitle states , `` The former enemies of North are united again in defense of their Aryan Stoneman Gov 's crackdown . Elsie Cameron\ to plead for his release . Lynch , tries to force her to marry him , which causes her to faint . Stoneman to be placed in another room . At first , Stoneman tells him he wants to marry a white woman , but is then angered when Lynch 's daughter . Undercover Klansmen 's plight after she breaks a window and cries out for help . Elsie , gathered together and with Ben reaches Ben frees her mouth and screams for help . Lynch , the Klansmen 's militia surrounds and attacks the hut where the Camerons are hiding . The Klansmen at their head , race in to save them just in time . The next election day , blacks find a line of mounted and armed Klansmen Cameron Stoneman Stoneman Cameron Christ we dream of a golden day when the bestial War in the Hall Love of Peace Civil War O\'Hara , her family\ 's cotton plantation in Georgia learns that Ashley Wilkes\xe2\x80\x94whom Hamilton 's home , the nearby plantation Twelve Oaks.\n\nAt Oaks privately declares her feelings to Ashley are more compatible . Scarlett Butler watches Ashley goodbye , Melanie\ proposes to her . Although she does not love him , Scarlett dies from a bout of pneumonia and measles while serving in the Confederate Army 's mother sends her to the Hamilton to cheer her up , although the O\'Haras\ tells Scarlett 's return . Scarlett with Melanie again , now a blockade runner for the Confederacy victory and to raise money for the Confederate makes an inordinately large bid for Scarlett of Gettysburg 's town are killed . Scarlett while he is visiting on Christmas Day Army Campaign and her young house slave Prissy 's baby without medical assistance after she goes into premature labor . Afterwards , Scarlett to take her home to Tara , her baby , and Prissy and the group to make their own way back to Tara finds Tara and Pork learns that her mother has just died of typhoid fever and her father has become incompetent . With Tara troops and the fields untended , Scarlett work in the cotton fields , Scarlett\ , Ashley . When Scarlett . Unable to pay the taxes on Tara dupes her younger sister Suellen\ Kennedy got tired of waiting and married another suitor.\n\nFrank , Ashley and several other accomplices make a night raid on a shanty town after Scarlett 's death . With Frank\ proposes to Scarlett names Bonnie Blue , still pining for Ashley know that she wants no more children and that they will no longer share a bed.\n\nOne day at Frank\ and Ashley 's sister , India she eagerly spreads rumors . Later that evening , Rhett to attend a birthday party for Ashley of believing anything bad of her , Melanie 's side so that all know that she believes the gossip to be false . After returning home from the party , Scarlett downstairs drunk , and they argue about Ashley kisses Scarlett to the bedroom . The next day , Rhett a divorce , which she rejects , saying that it would be a disgrace . When Rhett , Scarlett dies while attempting to jump a fence with her pony.\n\nScarlett and Rhett , who has suffered complications arising from a new pregnancy , on her deathbed . As Scarlett , Rhett . Having realized that it was he she truly loved all along , and not Ashley pleads with Rhett rebuffs her and walks away into the morning fog , leaving her in tears on the staircase , vowing to one day win back his love.\n\nIn 1938 , Maria woman studying to become a nun at Nonnberg Abbey . Her love of music and the mountains , her youthful enthusiasm and imagination , and her lack of discipline cause some concern among the nuns . The Mother Abbess would be happier outside the abbey , sends her to the villa of retired naval officer Captain Georg von Trapp , Louisa , Brigitta , and Gretl has been raising his children using strict military discipline following the death of his wife . Although the children misbehave at first , Maria , the oldest , is won over after Maria , a messenger boy she is in love with.\n\nWhile the Captain , Maria and the surrounding mountains , and teaches them how to sing . When the Captain Elsa Schraeder Detweiler and the children returning from a boat ride on the lake that concludes when their boat overturns . Displeased by his children\ 's clothes and activities , and Maria\ orders her to return to the abbey . Just then he hears singing coming from inside the house and is astonished to see his children singing for the Baroness joins his children , singing for the first time in years . Afterwards , he apologizes to Maria proposes he enter them in the upcoming Salzburg Festival as he is opposed to his children singing in public . He does agree , however , to organize a grand party at the villa . The night of the party , while guests in formal attire waltz in the ballroom , Maria notices Maria the traditional L\xc3\xa4ndler in a graceful performance , culminating in a close embrace . Confused about her feelings , Maria , who noticed the Captain\ , hides her jealousy while convincing Maria Abbess has stayed in seclusion to avoid her feelings for the Captain returns to the villa , she learns about the Captain\ and agrees to stay until they find a replacement governess . The Captain\ , however , have not changed , and after breaking off his engagement the Captain the Captain are on their honeymoon , Max Festival has been annexed by the Third Reich , the couple return to their home , where a telegram awaits informing the Captain that he must report to the German Naval base at Bremerhaven . Strongly opposed to the Nazis , the Captain immediately for Switzerland of the Von Trapps\ , whom Liesl Youth family attempt to leave , they are stopped by a group of Brownshirts Hans Zeller maintains they are headed to the Salzburg Festival insists on escorting them to the festival , after which his men will accompany the Captain that night at the festival , during their final number , the von Trapp Abbess . Upon seeing Liesl family make their way on foot across the frontier into Switzerland Civil War O\'Hara , her family\ 's cotton plantation in Georgia learns that Ashley Wilkes\xe2\x80\x94whom Hamilton 's home , the nearby plantation Twelve Oaks.\n\nAt Oaks privately declares her feelings to Ashley are more compatible . Scarlett Butler watches Ashley goodbye , Melanie\ proposes to her . Although she does not love him , Scarlett dies from a bout of pneumonia and measles while serving in the Confederate Army 's mother sends her to the Hamilton to cheer her up , although the O\'Haras\ tells Scarlett 's return . Scarlett with Melanie again , now a blockade runner for the Confederacy victory and to raise money for the Confederate makes an inordinately large bid for Scarlett of Gettysburg 's town are killed . Scarlett while he is visiting on Christmas Day Army Campaign and her young house slave Prissy 's baby without medical assistance after she goes into premature labor . Afterwards , Scarlett to take her home to Tara , her baby , and Prissy and the group to make their own way back to Tara finds Tara and Pork learns that her mother has just died of typhoid fever and her father has become incompetent . With Tara troops and the fields untended , Scarlett work in the cotton fields , Scarlett\ , Ashley . When Scarlett . Unable to pay the taxes on Tara dupes her younger sister Suellen\ Kennedy got tired of waiting and married another suitor.\n\nFrank , Ashley and several other accomplices make a night raid on a shanty town after Scarlett 's death . With Frank\ proposes to Scarlett names Bonnie Blue , still pining for Ashley know that she wants no more children and that they will no longer share a bed.\n\nOne day at Frank\ and Ashley 's sister , India she eagerly spreads rumors . Later that evening , Rhett to attend a birthday party for Ashley of believing anything bad of her , Melanie 's side so that all know that she believes the gossip to be false . After returning home from the party , Scarlett downstairs drunk , and they argue about Ashley kisses Scarlett to the bedroom . The next day , Rhett a divorce , which she rejects , saying that it would be a disgrace . When Rhett , Scarlett dies while attempting to jump a fence with her pony.\n\nScarlett and Rhett , who has suffered complications arising from a new pregnancy , on her deathbed . As Scarlett , Rhett . Having realized that it was he she truly loved all along , and not Ashley pleads with Rhett rebuffs her and walks away into the morning fog , leaving her in tears on the staircase , vowing to one day win back his love.\n\nIn 1945 , at his daughter Connie\ Vito Corleone York , who was a Marine War II Adams Fontane 's godson , seeks Vito\ dispatches his consigliere , Tom Hagen Angeles Woltz the part . Woltz , drug baron Virgil '' Sollozzo crime family , asks Vito of involvement in a dangerous new trade that risks alienating political insiders , Vito sends his enforcer , Luca Brasi is garroted during his first meeting with Bruno Tattaglia . Later Sollozzo gunned down in the street , then kidnaps Hagen first-born Sonny pressures Hagen to accept Sollozzo\ 's bullet-proof vest , indicating that Luca survives , and at the hospital Michael 's jaw is broken by NYPD Captain Marc McCluskey 's unauthorized bodyguard . Sonny Tattaglia plots to murder Sollozzo : on the deception of settling the dispute , Michael restaurant . There , retrieving a planted handgun , he kills both men.\n\nDespite a clampdown by the authorities , the Five fears for his sons\ ' safety . Michael and Fredo Greene Vegas attacks Carlo and threatens to kill him if it happens again . When it does , Sonny , Michael Vitelli 's death and realizing that the Tattaglias Emilio Barzini attempts to end the feud . He assures the Five Families that he will withdraw his opposition to their heroin business and forgo avenging Sonny\ returns home to enter the family business and marry Kay gives birth to two children by the early 1950s , and with his father at the end of his career and his brother too weak , Michael relocate to Las Vegas because Tom agrees Tom travels to Las Vegas 's stake in the family\ 's casinos . Michael has fallen under Greene\ suffers a fatal heart attack . At the funeral , Tessio capo , asks Michael Barzini had forewarned . The meeting is set for the same day as the christening of Connie\ stands at the altar as the child\ 's godfather , Corleone York Greene is executed for his treachery and Michael 's confession to his complicity in setting up Sonny\ . A Corleone , garrotes Carlo accuses Michael that Michael is relieved when Michael Corleone Island England Watkins Brody Larry Vaughn was killed in a boating accident . Brody offers his services for $ 10,000 . Meanwhile , consulting oceanographer Matt Hooper 's remains , and confirms her death was caused by a shark\xe2\x80\x94an unusually large one.\n\nWhen local fishermen catch a tiger shark , the mayor proclaims the beaches safe . Hooper and Brody 's boat . Underwater retrieves a sizable great white shark\ 's tooth embedded in the submerged hull . He drops it in fright after encountering a partial corpse . Vaughn and Hooper\ of July 's oldest son , Michael to hire Quint.\n\nQuint , and Hooper 's boat , the Orca lays down a chum line , Quint , estimating its length at 25 feet ( 7.6 m ) and weight at 3 tons , harpoons it with a line attached to a flotation barrel , but the shark pulls the barrel underwater and disappears.\n\nAt nightfall , Quint drunkenly exchange stories about their assorted scars and Quint Indianapolis attempts to call the Coast Guard , who has become obsessed with killing the shark without outside assistance , smashes the radio . After a long chase , Quint heads toward shore to draw the shark into shallower waters , but he intentionally pushes the damaged engine past the safety limits and the overtaxed engine fails.\n\nWith the Orca puts on scuba gear and enters the water in a shark-proof cage , intending to lethally inject the shark with strychnine , using a hypodermic spear . The shark demolishes the cage before Hooper . Trapped on the sinking vessel , Brody surfaces , and he and Brody Island spies have stolen plans to the Galactic Empire\ Star Leia 's leaders , has obtained the plans , but her starship is captured by an Imperial Star Destroyer Vader hides the plans in the memory of astromech droid R2-D2 , flees in an escape pod to the desert planet below the starships , Tatooine.\n\nThe traders , who sell them to moisture farmers Owen Lars Skywalker , Luke , in which she requests help from Obi-Wan Kenobi finds R2-D2 missing , and encounters `` Old Ben , a hermit who reveals himself as Obi-Wan of his days as one of the Jedi Knights Republic until being all but wiped out by the Empire to what his uncle has told him , Luke as a Jedi Knight , a former pupil of Obi-Wan\ and murdered him . Obi-Wan presents Luke with his father\ 's old weapon : a lightsaber.\n\nR2-D2 plays Leia\ , in which she begs him to take the Death Star and give them to her father for analysis . Obi-Wan invites Luke and learn the ways of the Force declines , but changes his mind after discovering that Imperials have killed his aunt and uncle and destroyed their farm . Obi-Wan visit a cantina in Mos Eisley Solo co-pilot Chewbacca 's ship , the Millennium Falcon.\n\nThe has been destroyed by the Death Star\ Moff Tarkin is captured by the Death Star\ goes to disable . Luke is imprisoned on the Death Star and Chewbacca Vader escapes amid a fierce dogfight with Imperial TIE , the Imperials follow the rebels to the hidden base on Yavin Star joins the Rebel collects his payment , intending to leave . In the ensuing battle , the Rebels leads a squadron of TIE 's X-wing , but Han fighters , sending Vader 's spirit , Luke to destroy the Death Star base . On Yavin awards Luke with medals for their heroism.\n\nA group of alien botanists secretly visit Earth forest . When government agents appear on the scene , the aliens flee in their spaceship , but in their haste , one of them is left behind . In a suburban neighborhood in the San Fernando Valley is spending time with his brother , Michael leaves Reese\ realizes it is imitating his movements . He feigns illness the next morning to stay home from school and play with it . Later that day , Michael , meet it . They decide to keep it hidden from their mother , Mary begins to experience a psychic connection with the alien , including exhibiting signs of intoxication ( because it is at his home , drinking beer and watching Tom ) , and he begins freeing all the frogs in his biology class . As the alien watches John Wayne O\'Hara Man then kisses a girl he likes in the same manner and he is sent to the principal\ 's office.\n\nThe alien learns to speak English by repeating what Gertie Street 's urging , dubs itself `` E.T . reads a comic strip where Buck Rogers . receives Elliott\ & Spell notices that E.T.\ is referring to himself as `` we '' .\n\nOn Halloween and Elliott . as a ghost so they can sneak him out of the house . That night , Elliott . head through the forest , where they make a successful call home . The next day , Elliott . gone . Elliott searches for and finds E.T takes E.T , who is also dying . Mary , Mary while treating Elliott . Their connection disappears and E.T recovers . A grief-stricken Elliott . when he notices a dead chrysanthemum , the plant E.T . reanimates and reveals that his people are returning . Elliott steal a van that E.T 's friends joining them as they attempt to evade the authorities by bicycles . Suddenly facing a police roadblock , they escape as E.T before.\n\nStanding near the spaceship , E.T.\ , Gertie '' , a friendly government agent , show up . E.T and Gertie and tells him `` I\ 's forehead . He then picks up the chrysanthemum , boards the spaceship , and it takes off , leaving a rainbow in the sky as everyone watches it leave.\n\nIndustrialist John Hammond , have created a theme park featuring cloned dinosaurs and prehistoric plants , called Jurassic Park Nublar , the park\ 's investors , represented by lawyer Donald Gennaro invites mathematician and chaos theorist Ian Malcolm invites paleontologist Dr. Alan Grant Ellie Sattler , in addition to two more with a herd of Parasaurolophus.\n\nAt scoffs at the idea , saying it will inevitably break down . The group witnesses the hatching of a baby Velociraptor gives a harsh warning about the implications of genetic engineering.\n\nThe group is joined by Hammond\ and Lex oversees the tour from the park\ 's control room . The tour does not go as planned . Most of the dinosaurs fail to appear and the group encounters a sick Triceratops Nublar stays behind with the park\ 's veterinarian to study the Triceratops.\n\nJurassic Park\ Nedry , a man working for Hammond\ deactivates the park\ 's security system to gain access to the embryo storage room and puts the stolen embryos inside a canister disguised as a shaving cream bottle . The power goes out , stalling the tour vehicles . Most of the park\ 's electric fences are deactivated , allowing the Tyrannosaurus and Hammond\ injures Malcolm . While taking the embryos to the island\ 's dock , Nedry Wrangler helps the park\ 's game warden , Robert Muldoon before the Tyrannosaurus , Tim take shelter in a treetop . They later discover broken dinosaur egg shells . Grant African right.\n\nUnable to decipher Nedry\ and the park\ 's chief engineer Ray Arnold heads to a maintenance shed to complete the rebooting process . When Arnold and Muldoon distracts the raptors , while Sattler 's severed arm . Muldoon and narrowly escaping the Tyrannosaurus stampede , Grant , and Lex heads out to look for Sattler ( who was injured while scaling one of the fences ) and Lex and Sattler restores full power from the control room , allowing them to call Hammond , Tim , and Sattler suddenly appears and kills the raptors . Hammond , and the survivors board a helicopter to leave the island.\n\nIn 1996 , treasure hunter Brock Lovett Mstislav Keldysh Titanic of the Ocean 14 , 1912 , the day the ship struck the iceberg . [ Note 1 ] Rose Dawson Calvert and tells Lovett 1912 Southampton DeWitt Bukater Hockley board the luxurious Titanic emphasizes that Rose\ over the engagement , Rose Dawson , Rose saved her from falling . When Cal deserves a reward . He invites Jack and Rose and Ruth secretly joins Jack and Ruth\ rebuffs Jack\ . After rendezvousing on the bow at sunset , Rose to her state room ; at her request , Jack posing nude wearing Cal\ of the Ocean 's bodyguard , Mr. Lovejoy 's sketch of Rose and Rose of the collision , Lovejoy 's pocket and he and Cal is arrested , taken to the master-at-arms\ ' office , and handcuffed to a pipe . Cal flees Cal . On the boat deck , Cal encourage her to board a lifeboat ; Cal off safely . After Rose boards one , Cal the arrangement is only for himself . As her boat lowers , Rose and jumps back on board . Cal and Jack realizes he gave his coat and consequently the necklace to Rose and Rose and Rose dies of hypothermia [ 8 ] but Rose hiding from Cal Carpathia York City gives her name as Rose Dawson says she later read that Cal Street Crash decides to abandon his search after hearing Rose\ , Rose of the Ocean \xe2\x80\x93 and drops it into the sea over the wreck site . While she is seemingly asleep or has died in her bed , [ 9 ] photos on her dresser depict a life of freedom and adventure inspired by the life she wanted to live with Jack young Rose at the Titanic\ Staircase 's natural resources , leading to a severe energy crisis . The Resources Development Administration for short ) mines for a valuable mineral \xe2\x80\x94 , a densely forested habitable moon orbiting the gas giant Polyphemus Centauri , whose atmosphere is poisonous to humans , is inhabited by the Na\'vi explore Pandora\ Sully , replaces his deceased identical twin brother as an operator of one . Dr. Grace Augustine Program an inadequate replacement but accepts his assignment as a bodyguard . While protecting the avatars of Grace . Norm Spellman 's avatar is attacked by a thanator and flees into the forest , where he is rescued by Neytiri . Witnessing an auspicious sign , she takes him to her clan , whereupon Neytiri\ , the clan\ 's spiritual leader , orders her daughter to initiate Jake Quaritch 's private security force , promises Jake that the company will restore his legs if he gathers information about the Na\'vi , [ 36 ] which stands above the richest deposit of unobtanium in the area . When Grace , and Norm grows to sympathize with the natives . After Jake choose each other as mates , and soon afterward , Jake site . When Quaritch shows a video recording of Jake\ Parker Selfridge admits that the Na\'vi , Selfridge destroyed.\n\nDespite Grace\ could damage the biological neural network native to Pandora gives Jake one hour to convince the Na\'vi , Jake take him and Grace 's men destroy Hometree 's father ( the clan chief ) and many others . Mo\'at and Grace 's forces . Pilot Trudy Chac\xc3\xb3n 's brutality , frees Jake and Grace 's outpost , but during the escape Quaritch regain the Na\'vi\ connects his mind to that of Toruk . Jake of Souls to heal Grace from her human body into her avatar with the aid of the Tree , but she dies before the process can be completed . Supported by the new chief Tsu\'tey speaks to unite the clan and tells them to gather all of the clans to battle against the RDA organizes a pre-emptive strike against the Tree , believing that its destruction will demoralize the natives . On the eve of battle , Jake , via a neural connection with the Tree , to intercede on behalf of the Na\'vi.\n\nDuring the subsequent battle , the Na\'vi and Trudy wildlife unexpectedly join the attack and overwhelm the humans , which Neytiri 's answer to Jake\ destroys a makeshift bomber before it can reach the Tree ; Quaritch suit , escapes from his own damaged aircraft and breaks open the avatar link unit containing Jake\ 's poisonous atmosphere . Quaritch prepares to slit the throat of Jake\ kills Quaritch , Norm and sent back to Earth is permanently transferred into his avatar with the aid of the Tree 1954 the American CBS Fleming 9 ] Royale Mystery Theater 1954 and June Ellis Bennett was well known for his collaborations with Alfred Hitchcock . [ 13 ] Due to the restriction of a one-hour play , the adapted version lost many of the details found in the book , although it retained its violence , particularly in Act III Royale actor Barry Nelson and Peter Lorre Chiffre 1954 as a live production . [ 14 ] \n\nThe Star Wars long time ago in a galaxy far , far away . `` [ 4 ] Many species of aliens ( often humanoid ) co-exist with droids who may assist them in their daily routines , and space travel between planets is common due to hyperspace technology . [ 5 ] [ 6 ] is corrupted and overthrown by the Galactic Empire Alliance later gives rise to the New Republic reform as the First Order . [ 10 ] Heroes against the oppressive dictatorship.\n\nA mystical power known as `` the Force binds the galaxy together . `` [ 11 ] Those whom `` the Force is wielded by two major knighthood orders at conflict with each other : the Jedi through non-attachment and arbitration , and the Sith first film , Raiders Ark Jones Ford of the Covenant . The Nazis have teams searching for religious artifacts , including the Ark before it invincible . [ 3 ] The Nazis are being helped by Indiana\ Belloq Freeman Ravenwood Allen ( John Rhys-Davies manages to recover the Ark . The Nazis steal the Ark and Marion and the Nazis , but when they do so , they are all killed gruesomely by the Ark\ and Marion to the United Jones of Doom of the Lost Ark escapes Chinese gangsters with the help of singer/actress Willie Scott Capshaw Round Ke Quan , where they come across a village whose children have been kidnapped . The Thuggee Ram Puri Stones manages to overcome Mola Ram\ 's university or any antagonistic political entity , and is less focused on archaeology , being presented as a dark movie with gross-out elements , human sacrifice and torture.\n\nThe third film , Indiana Jones ( 1989 ) opens in 1912 with a thirteen-year-old Indiana Phoenix V\xc3\xa1squez , a task which he finally completes in 1938 . Indiana Brody Elliott Donovan Glover Grail Elsa Schneider Doody 's estranged father Henry Connery and Elsa , who captured Henry Jones to help them find the Grail recovers his father\ 's diary filled with his research , and manages to rescue him before finding the location of the Grail and Elsa , while Indiana realize that their relationship with each other is more important than finding the relic.\n\nThe fourth film , Indiana Jones of the Crystal Skull , thus acknowledging the real-life passing of years between films . Indiana Union Spalko Blanchett , Connecticut , and the Amazon . Indiana ( Ray Winstone Williams LaBeouf Jones III Ravenwood Lucas of Indiana Smith Wars Lucas Kaufman of the Covenant . The project was stalled when Clint Eastwood to write The Outlaw Josey Wales 1977 , Lucas , trying to escape the enormous success of Star Wars Spielberg Encounters Kind told Lucas Bond told him of an idea `` better than James Bond of the Lost Ark loved it , calling it `` a James Bond . [ 5 ] Spielberg made a deal with Paramount Pictures Jones \n\nSpielberg aimed to make Indiana Jones of Doom made the film a prequel as he did not want the Nazis King Stones Huyck Katz of the Lost Ark revisited the Monkey King suggested the Holy Grail had previously rejected this as too ethereal , but then devised a father-son story and decided that `` The Grail Jones , Lucas Indiana Jones Chronicles played Indiana . When Lucas 's role in December set in the 1950s . The film could reflect a science fiction 1950s B-movie disliked the new angle , telling Lucas : `` No way am I being in a Steve Spielberg himself , who depicted aliens in Close Encounters Kind . the Extra-Terrestrial , resisted it . Lucas Stuart 1993 to May Lucas to get married , which would allow Henry Jones Sr. Stalin decided to have Russians as the villains and the aliens to have psychic powers . [ 13 ] Following Stuart\ hired Last Crusade Boam 1996 . Three months later , Independence Day told Lucas of the Worlds decided to focus on the Star Wars \n\nIn 2000 , Spielberg\ Jones , Lucas , Frank Marshall Kennedy Film Institute\ , and decided they wanted to enjoy the experience of making an Indiana Jones also found returning to the series a respite from his many dark films during this period . [ 15 ] Spielberg discussed the central idea of a B-movie suggested using crystal skulls to ground the idea . Lucas , [ 16 ] and had intended to feature them for a Young Indiana Jones Night Shyamalan , Spielberg to focus . [ 17 ] Stephen Gaghan Stoppard \n\nFrank Darabont Indiana Jones 2002 . [ 18 ] Jones of Gods . [ 19 ] Spielberg Per\xc3\xb3n , who allegedly protected Nazi Darabont loved the script , but Lucas Lucas acknowledged that the 1950s setting could not ignore the Cold War decided he could not satirize the Nazis 's List while Ford Darabont\ Ravenwood 's love interest , but he gave them a 13-year-old daughter , which Spielberg World . [ 11 ] \n\nJeff Nathanson and Lucas 2004 , and turned in the next drafts in October 2005 , titled The Atomic Koepp of Worlds Oppenheimer of the Crystal Skull found this a more inviting title which actually named the plot device . [ 21 ] Koepp as a nerd , but Lucas Brando One Jones\ him ] he\ 's everything a father can\'t stand '' . [ 11 ] Koepp Kasdan \n\nThe Williams LaBeouf of the Crystal Skull will take over the franchise from Ford , `` Spielberg has to make multiple Transformers Jones 's a fun rumor . `` [ 25 ] Ford while Spielberg want more '' . [ 27 ] In an interview with Time in the next film , Ford 's mine . I would love to do another Indiana Jones Lucas can get his own hat . I earned that hat . `` [ 28 ] \n\nAt the 2008 Cannes Film Festival made a further suggestion that there would be a fifth film , revealing an idea `` to make Shia LaBeouf Ford Connery was filmed , Connery also said that age need not be a factor , as Ford 's incredibly agile ; he looks even better than he did 20 years ago , if you ask me . `` [ 29 ] In August was researching potential plot devices , and stated Spielberg Jones Jones Ford Jones Williams Williams for Elvis stated that he would not return if the fifth film was an animated film like The Clone Wars 'd hate to see it reduced in any way from the movies that we have done and the way we have done them . '' He also called Lucas\ \n\nWhen Ravenwood only replied : `` He\ those are the only witnesses to what he\ 's seen . That\ 2010 , Ford 's full of opportunity . The series is full of opportunity . `` [ 34 ] \n\nThe Jones 2009 that the next installment would start filming in 2011 with a plot involving the Bermuda Triangle Marshall page . [ 36 ] Speaking to BBC Mzimba 2009 , LaBeouf [ Spielberg ] , I think they\ 're gearing that up . `` [ 37 ] Lucas 2009 . [ 38 ] In November said that he and Spielberg to present an idea to them . [ 39 ] In March website interviewed Karen Allen , `` which is a huge step forward . I heard this about six months ago , that they have a story that they like and they\ 're working on it . `` [ 40 ] In July Marshall 's not on until there is a writer on the project . There is no writer on Indy October Disney Company , thereby granting Disney Jones However , Paramount Pictures 6 , 2013 , Walt Disney Studios Jones will retain the distribution rights to the first four films , and will receive `` financial participation '' from any additional films . [ 46 ] [ 48 ] CEO Bob Iger 's various company divisions . [ 49 ] Studio Horn Jones \n\nIn a May Fair Kennedy 'm not quite sure . We haven\'t started working on a script yet , but we are talking about it . `` [ 51 ] In October told Yahoo Ford Jones \n\nOn March Disney Studios 19 , 2019 , with Ford directing , Koepp and Marshall Lucas [ 54 ] However , during a press event for Disney\ , Spielberg will be returning as executive producer , stating `` I would never make an Indiana Jones Lucas 'd be insane . `` [ 55 ] Marshall of the Crystal Skull 9 , 2016 , Spielberg Williams 25 , 2017 , the official Star Wars 10 , 2020 . [ 58 ] The release date was eventually delayed again after Jonathan Kasdan 4 , 2017 , Koepp Williams LaBeouf Spielberg discussed the fifth film , with Spielberg Jones said the future of the franchise with Ford January Hollywood is eyeing the fifth Indiana Jones Player One 2018 . [ 62 ] According to Variety 19 , 2018 , it was confirmed by Spielberg 2019 in the United Kingdom 2018 , Disney 9 , 2021 . [ 1 ] ( Sylvester Stallone is mocked and told that he\ 's nothing but a \'bum , \ Goldmill Meredith successfully courts Adrian Pennino Shire ( Burt Young Creed Weathers at random as his opponent in a title fight , Rocky 's support and Mickey fights for his self-respect.\n\nSoon after proving himself , even with a split decision loss to Apollo Creed expects the good life to follow . He marries Adrian and begins spending the money he earned from the match . But after he fails at both endorsements and a series of low wage jobs , Rocky into a rematch , for which Rocky . In the fifteenth round , Rocky to the ground , falling to the canvas himself in the process . Both fighters struggle to get to their feet , but only Rocky is declared the World Heavyweight Champion shows respect for him as he regains his support from fans for doing a fair fight.\n\nAfter winning the heavyweight title , Rocky `` Clubber ( played by Mr. T publicly . Rocky 's heart attack before the fight , is overpowered by the stronger , hungrier Lang Creed to fight in Creed\ Angeles outboxes Lang calls in his `` favor '' for training Rocky Lang continues to live the good life , now that he and Apollo , Ivan Drago Lundgren to an exhibition match . Apollo ends with Apollo 's arms in the ring as Drago , Rocky to a match , which is to be held on Christmas Day . In a montage replete with symbolism , Rocky with the help of Creed\ , his brother-in-law Paulie , doing exercises such as chopping wood , lifting rocks , running in the snow and climbing a mountain , while Drago takes the worst beating of his life but refuses to fall . He eventually wins over the foreign crowd with his display of courage and determination , and he knocks Drago out with seconds left in the final round.\n\nIn the aftermath of his fight with Ivan Drago Balboa fortune is all gone due to an unscrupulous accountant . Rocky\ ( Robert ( played by Sylvester Stallone\ re-opens Mickey\ meets a young , hungry boxer named Tommy Gunn Morrison . Unfortunately , as Tommy 's wing , a sleazy fight promoter named George Washington Duke that Rocky leaves Rocky . After Tommy , and is met with jeers and the familiar chant of `` Rocky 's robot '' and being told that he\ 's `` no Rocky Balboa decides to seek out his former mentor for a final showdown . Rocky starts to walk away from the public challenge , but Paulie have a piece of his mind about how Tommy , and Tommy . Rocky outside and the two proceed in a violent bare-knuckle street brawl , which Rocky then proceeds to punch Duke and Robert Balboa `` The Machine . Long Balboa is working back at the meat plant , and Rocky\ has died . Rocky depicting a bout between a young Rocky Balboa Dixon Tarver discovers he has not lost his fighting spirit and considers an opportunity to prove himself in the ring again . Rocky almost wins the fight but loses in a split decision just like the first film ( in an alternate ending Rocky is last seen visiting his wife\ 's grave saying , `` Yo Adrian '' Johnson B. Jordan Creed Balboa 's and asks Rocky is reluctant , but eventually agrees . When word gets out that Donnie 's illegitimate son , the handlers of world light heavyweight champion `` Pretty Conlan the latter\ 's final challenger\xe2\x80\x94provided that he change his name to Adonis Creed balks at first , wanting to forge his own legacy . However , he eventually agrees . While helping Donnie learns he has non-Hodgkin\ 's lymphoma . He is initially unwilling to undergo chemotherapy because it wasn\'t enough to save Adrian from ovarian cancer . Donnie to seek treatment and continues training while Rocky recovers . In a battle reminiscent of Apollo 's first fight , Donnie in Conlan\ and surprises almost everyone by going the distance and pushing Conlan to his limit . Conlan wins the respect of Conlan calling Donnie , Donnie both make their way up the Philadelphia Museum '' Ricky Conlan Johnson Creed Heavyweight Championship Taylor Thompson Creed Balboa Drago Drago Munteanu publicly challenge Adonis Heavyweight Title is reluctant to train Adonis will meet the same fate as his father , but Adonis 's disqualification , Adonis demands a rematch , while he is being promoted by his father\ 's supporters who originally abandoned Drago 's ex-wife , Ludmilla Nielsen is subjected to vicious training sessions in preparation for the rematch . Rocky ' aid and decides to train him in the Southern California to take in Viktor\ , and Adonis 's powerful punches , while leaving Viktor 's supporters and his mother leave during the fight with doubt that Viktor seeing his son taking Adonis\xe2\x80\x99 ( Milo Ventimiglia brings Bianca Technologies , Inc. ) is a fictional company based in Palo Alto and has one location in Europe , most of InGen\ Sorna Nublar Rica nb 2 ] While the first novel indicated InGen had discovered a method of cloning dinosaurs and other animals ( including a quagga ) using blood extracted from mosquitoes trapped in amber during various periods in time , ranging from the Mesozoic Beacham\ of Popular Fiction as comparable to another `` sleazy organization '' . [ 5 ] rex as an allusion to other exploitative entrepreneurs depicted in King Kong Gelder as `` resolutely secretive , just like the firm in Grisham\ \n\nStar Trek Roddenberry Trek series of writers attempted to craft a suitably epic screenplay , but the attempts did not satisfy Paramount instead planned on returning the franchise to its roots with a new television series , Star Trek II Wars studios to their vaults in search of similar sci-fi properties that could be adapted or re-launched to the big screen . When Columbia\ Encounters Kind 1977 , Paramount Wars II Trek Trek Picture 7 , 1978 [ 4 ] with director Robert Wise Abel [ 6 ] proving unable to handle the film\ 's large amount of effects work . Douglas Trumbull of the set elements created for Phase II Picture\ to back a sequel with a reduced budget . After Roddenberry goes back in time to ensure the assassination of John F. Kennedy brought in television producer Harve Bennett decided that the character of Khan Noonien Singh Nicholas Meyer of Khan Hornblower release , the reception of The Wrath was highly positive ; [ 10 ] Entertainment Weekly\ Bernadin of Khan Trek \n\nMeyer Nimoy gave Bennett Trek III of Khan that built on threads from the previous film and the original series episode `` Amok Time '' . [ citation needed ] Nimoy and Bennett crew returning to their past to retrieve something to save their present\xe2\x80\x94eventually , humpback whales . After having been dissatisfied with the script written by Daniel Petrie Jr. hired Meyer 's help . Meyer After Time Star William Shatner Trek V Meyer Trek VI.\n\nBoth cast , with the sixth focusing on the original cast and the seventh focusing on the TNG cast made four films over a period of eight years , with the last two performing only moderately well ( Insurrection ) at the box office.\n\nAfter the poor reception of Star Trek Trek Berman Jendresen Trek , which would take place after Enterprise . [ 14 ] J. J. Abrams and creator of Lost Wars Trek 2007 , Abrams 's offer to direct the new Star Trek Orci Kurtzman , featuring new actors portraying younger versions of the original series\ ' cast . The Enterprise 2008 release , Paramount 8 , 2009 . [ 17 ] The film earned over $ 350 million worldwide ( from a solid $ 75.2 million opening weekend , higher than Star Trek Contact Trek IV Home Trek Into Darkness released the film on May third film , Star Trek Beyond Lin . It was released on July reprises his role of Spock '' , `` JJ Trek '' , before it was named the `` Kelvin Timeline Timeline and Denise Okuda Trek comes from the USS Kelvin Trek named the starship after his grandfather Henry Kelvin Darkness Memorial Archive \n\nFans commonly considered the films to follow a `` curse '' that even-numbered films were better than the odd-numbered installments . [ 21 ] Tomatoes States and Canada tenth film , Nemesis [ 26 ] Trek [ 30 ] occurred in a 1999 episode of the Channel , where it was referenced by Tim Bisley Pegg , quite conscious of the irony , [ 31 ] played Scotty Girls Nest , where each show is fiction in the other.\n\nCrossovers of multiple characters owned by one company or published by one publisher , have been used to set an established continuity , where characters can frequently meet within one setting . This is especially true of comic book publishers , as different characters in various Marvel or Valiant Comics has frequent dealings with another Marvel , just as in the DC Comics Universe and Green Lantern Fox\ 's Search # 4 ( October/November Comics 1965 ) , The Atom 1965 ) , Green Lantern 1966 ) , Detective Comics 1966 ) , and Justice League # 51 ( February attempting to reconnect with her father , Zatara , Batman , the Atom Lantern Man Editor-in-Chief at the time , Jim Shooter Wars heroes into a 12-issue miniseries to battle a common threat . After the threat was dealt with , they all returned to their regular titles . Secret Wars 's black suit which would later become the villain Venom Shooter Comics event . Unity characters together to defeat Mothergod Comics titles ( and two bookend special issues ) . Readers were not obliged to buy all 18 chapters as the story was coherent when reading just one title , but far more layered when all were read . Like Secret Wars crossover had lasting effects on the Valiant , the birth of Magnus Fighter hero.\n\nDark Horse Comics\ Versus Predator Versus Predator Versus comic.\n\nThe comic crossovers from Raj , in which the super heroes meet to fight a common enemy . Many of these crossovers have occurred between Nagraj Commando Dhruva , all the heroes in Raj Universe , an extremely powerful enemy.\n\nWebcomics creators sometimes produce crossovers ; one of the first was a two-week sequence between Christopher Baldwin\ and Peter Zale\ , Sweetheart in 1998 . [ 1 ] Comics character Mega Man character Sonic called `` Worlds Collide the Hedgehog Universe Man , the crossover involved Dr. Eggman Wily and Mega Man Master Man Unite and Mega Man Man X Boom and Capcom books as their universe was drastically rewritten . Aftereffects of this included the Genesis Portals Man X and his minions , forcing a reunion between Sonic Man Unite Boom and Marvel.\n\nCartoon Network\ Adventures Next Door , Edd , Codename Next Door Adventures and Mandy Girls , which are all licensed Cartoon Network 10 : Ultimate Alien Rex 10/Generator Rex . Similarly , characters from Uncle Grandpa Universe Uncle Girls Titans Go v PPG ! Let\ Heroes Nexus Network 10 , Garnet Universe from Teen & Stitch ( a spinoff of the film Lilo ) had crossovers with various other Disney Family Possible , and American Dragon Jake Long Timmy Power Hour Neutron Turner TV series Hercules and the Arabian Night film Aladdin and Jafar would try to defeat Aladdin would try to defeat Hercules Go Wild Thornberrys were at the time . In Dexter\ `` Dial M '' `` Huntor is himself hunted ; `` Huntor '' later makes a cameo crossover in Samurai Jack\ vs Mad Jack properties . Some of the earliest examples happened on The New Scooby-Doo Movies Globetrotters and the Pussycats , Speed Buggy and Robin Family Superstars Meet . This was taken to an extreme in the 1977\xe2\x80\x9379 series Laff-A-Lympics characters for a regular series.\n\nCrossovers are not necessarily composed of characters under common ownership . Two of the most notable cartoon crossovers consisted of characters from different companies . Disney\ Framed Roger Rabbit and Warner Bros. Daffy Duck Duck Mouse Bunny and Bugs\ . The end of the movie features all the cartoons from all of the animation companies joining together in song , to be concluded by Porky Pig 's All ! '' line as Tinker Bell 27 , 1998 , Fox Kids Rangers and Ninja Turtles , had their crossover with the episode `` Shell Shocked 4 , 1997 , The 2 Kids WB : The Animated Series Batman Adventures 's Finest cartoon crossover would occur in 1990 , Cartoon All-Stars . This cartoon featured popular characters from children\ 's Saturday , CBS , and NBC morning with characters from all their networks , including Huey , and Louie 's DuckTales the Pooh , Slimer Ghostbusters ( from Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Bunny Duck and the Chipmunks , ALF , and the trio of Baby Kermit Piggy Gonzo Henson\ Babies ) . Animation companies granted unlimited , royalty-free use of their cartoon characters for this project , a feat that has been unequalled before or since then . This cartoon was also introduced by then-President George H. W. Bush Bush Matsumoto Harlock Express Millennia Legend Promethium Yaoi Millennia has also created various crossovers with Space Battleship Yamato are actually owned by Yoshinobu Nishizaki.\n\nThe Together and Lois Griffin Guy from the eponymous film or the gay version of Elmer Fudd Tunes crossover Phineas : Mission Marvel heroes Spider-Man Man , and Thor villains Whiplash , Red Skull , and characters from Phineas , where the storyline involves Phineas trying to restore power to the Marvel has crossovers with Family Guy . In the hour-long Family Guy Guy meet the Simpson Express episode `` Simpsorama \n\nIn the Disney of Mouse Mouse characters.\n\nWebtoons ( animated shows from the internet ) can also have crossovers with different webtoons , franchises , YouTubers and more . Some examples are when Kate 's Crash Zoom as a trick or treater who possesses Matt in the episode , `` Trick '' . In addition to this a couple of characters from Eddsworld Zoom and Dorks Battle and Boomstick Melee Fight Club Battle Exhibitions Battle.\n\nKonami Belmont , Universal Picture\ Kong from the Warner Bros. Movie Wai Wai World in 1988 . The King , Marvel , and many other franchises from third-party developers such as Capcom bring these licenses together.\n\nThe 2.5D fighting game series Super Smash Bros. characters together and allows players to fight against each other as these characters in arenas . The third game in the series , Super Smash Bros. Brawl Snake the Hedgehog 's Metal Gear 's Sonic series respectively . The fourth and fifth installments , Super Smash Bros. 3DS and Super Smash Bros. U 's Mega Man Fighter 's Sonic and Bayonetta Namco\ Enix\ Fantasy characters from the company\ 's different universes . The sixth installment , 2018\ 's Super Smash Bros also introduced Simon Belmont 's Castlevania Masters 's Street Fighter series features characters from a variety of other franchises including Link 's The Legend series , Heihachi Mishima , Todd McFarlane\ , Darth Vader , and Starkiller Wars Irving of Symphonia Montreal\ Auditore 's Creed of Rivia Sapkowski\ , and YoRHa No from PlatinumGames\ : Automata.\n\nMario at the Olympic two months before Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Sonic Hearts Enix films , Final Fantasy Ends With You.\n\nSuper Robot Wars Z , Neon Genesis Evangelion recently , there has been a collaboration between Capcom , which results in Street Fighter X Tekken X Street Fighter.\n\nWarriors Orochi Warriors and Samurai Warriors Tecmo Gaiden or Alive O\ Alexandra Namco\ series . Warriors All-Stars similarly crossed-over a number of characters from Koei Tecmo film Wreck-It Ralph Dimensions Comics , Doctor Who Movie of the Rings the Hedgehog Studios Meets the Wolf Man vs. Jason Line Cinema Fox vs . Predator vs . Predator : Requiem in 2007 . One year later , both Dollman Toys Master Toys Fox Kelley Studios released Lake Placid the comics publishing house Marvel team , with characters from upcoming films making cameo appearances in films starring another superhero , while it all lead to the crossover movie The Avengers ( 2012 ) . The same process was repeated for Avengers : Age ( 2015 ) and Avengers : Infinity War Cinematic Universe 's success , Warner Bros. Comics\ v Superman ( 2016 ) and further plans to develop the cinematic DC Extended Universe Pictures Pictures film series.\n\nThere have been numerous crossovers in Japanese cinema . The boom of kaiju films saw a lot of crossovers produced at Toho Studios movie franchise . Godzilla and Rodan ) each first appeared in standalone films before being set against each other or even teaming up against stronger enemies . Their first encounter was in 1964 , first in Mothra and a few months later of all three in Ghidorah . In 1962 Toho Kong . The long running Zatoichi Katsu\ Mifune Meets Yojimbo and the One-Armed Swordsman Wang Swordsman Kong Newman King Branch Cabell . Salinger Faulkner Laurence Pynchon Vonnegut Richler Rice Burroughs Heinlein Asimov Rick Riordan Twain of Huckleberry Finn Sawyer.\n\nBrazilian Lobato and Saci mythology , from the Arabian 's `` Snow White Pan and Felix , and Western films.\n\nIt is also common for authors to \'crossover\ ' characters who have passed into the public domain , and thus do not require copyright or royalty payments for their use in other works . The League Gentlemen Moore O\'Neill of the works of Philip Jos\xc3\xa9 Farmer\ Newton Holmes ) . Roger Zelazny\ Night October Holmes Frankenstein the Ripper Mythos '' , `` The Good Doctor '' , `` Jack of Extraordinary Gentlemen Fu Manchu Rohmer Devil Doctor\ of Extraordinary Gentlemen Dossier '' is clearly intended to be Ian Fleming\ Bond Connery\ of Extraordinary Gentlemen , yet , despite never being named , is shown to be an evil Harry Potter.\n\nThe TV Upon a Time White Red Riding Hood in Wonderland Disney Company Upon a Time film series is built on the same concept , and even includes references to then-copyrighted elements like Peter Pan is the episode Unter Br\xc3\xbcdern and DFF and the East German crime series Polizeiruf Schimanski Fuchs Wall Wall involving principals can also occur when the characters have no prior relationship , but are related by time period , locale or profession . The Law series , for example , afford a commonality of setting and profession which lends itself to crossovers , both within the franchise and in a wider universe . Law : SVU has crossed over several times with Chicago P.D Fire : Life on the Street has crossed over with NCIS Angeles : New Orleans , while NCIS Angeles and Hawaii Five-0 soap opera One Life and its high rated finale , several characters crossed over into the network\ 's remaining soap opera General Hospital franchise is another common example of the crossover phenomena , with the original series crossing over with CSI , CSI , CSI and Without a Trace crossed over with fellow CBS Case Danson and Cyber Guy has crossed over with The X-Files . The X-Files has in turn crossed over with Millennium : Life on the Street Gunmen . A proposed crossover with The West Wing Hillbillies , Green Acres Junction.\n\nThough Saturday , P.I Studios . Another case is that of Mad Buffay Kudrow York City initially followed Mad 's Thursday share another type of `` network crossover '' . On rare occasions , networks have chosen to theme an entire night\ 's programming around a crossover `` event '' . In one case , a New York City Reiser\ About You was experienced by the characters on Friends and Madman . [ 4 ] Such `` event nights '' can also be linked by a single character\ 's quest across multiple shows on the same evening . ABC night programming during the 1997 season . There , they proposed that the title character of Sabrina Witch , through Boy Meets World Angel \n\nABC Under Fire , The Drew Carey Show ) all went to Las Vegas used the show he was producing Zoey 101 go to ICarly.com '' , the iCarly theme song , as a ringtone . A Henry Danger 's wax head is seen in the Game Shakers Jacket Munch 's Homicide : Life on the Street 's The X-Files happened merely because the episode revolved around a crime scene in Baltimore . Munch & Order in which it had one episode which began on that series in New York City on Homicide . Later went off the air in 1999 , Detective Munch to move to New York York City Detective Munch 's Law : Special Victims Unit 2013.\n\nA two-part crossover episode between CSI Scene Investigation a Trace 8 , 2007 . The first hour was on CSI . [ 6 ] While both series are on the same network in the United Kingdom 4 and CSI 5 , meaning the two companies had to come to a special agreement to show both episodes . [ 7 ] crossover occurred in 2009 when Raymond Langston : Crime Scene Investigation : Miami : NY and New York had a crossover with Third Watch \n\nIn 2013 , the Canadian crime drama series Republic and Murdoch Mysteries Mysteries is a historical series set in the 1890s , while Republic is set in the present day . The problem was solved by having the actors cross over as relatives of their primary characters ; Allan Hawco 25 , 2013 episode of Murdoch Doyle Doyle Bisson 2014 episode of Republic as Bill Murdoch Murdoch Channel\ Life 's So Suite Life Montana Montana 's So Raven Hotel Life & Cody Montana/Miley Stewart Cyrus , which recurs in the 2009 crossover Wizards with Hannah Montana of Waverly Place Montana Tipton XD shows Lab Island Med Rats Med sitcom iCarly ; the episode `` iStart a Fan War series : Drake characters Eric Blonowitz Ramirez Mitchell 101 character Stacey Dillsen and Drake also occurred , with Helen DuBois Nicole Brown Did , Tori and Josh & Cat ) one can see Drake and Zoey and Spencer and Carly Cakes from Drake ( also portrayed by Miranda Cosgrove is seen changing the channel to it in # FavoriteShow & Cat Hathaways did a crossover , called `` The Haunted Danger & Thunder Danger Shakers Games '' , which was then followed by a crossover episode , called `` Babe '' , that aired in 2018 . In 2017 , Game Shakers Shippers ! ! ! Real Monsters make a crossover appearance in the Rugrats '' . This is because both shows were created/produced by Klasky Csupo [ .\n\nIn Chile Mundo Rossa of Professor Rossa ( Chilean Spanish 18 ( Mundo Rossa 19 ( Cachureos 1998 due the debut of the latter program on Canal and even have competed with each other for the child audience.\n\nCrossovers can take the form of a promotional cameo appearance , used to draw attention to another work of fiction , with little rational explanation in the context of the hosting show\ 's narrative . When not clearly presented as parody , this is frequently scorned by fans as blatant commercialism . A notable example of this is The Simpsons Star Is Burns Sherman ) appeared . It originally aired on March right before The Critic . This episode was largely condemned by fans of The Simpsons , an animated series considered inferior by comparison . Even Simpsons Groening character Dan Tanna Urich $ appeared in an episode of Charlie\ ( `` Angels in Vegas $ . However , it is not considered a spin-off because Dan Tanna TV Movie on the evening of Tuesday 25 , 1978 . The crossover was simply used to reintroduce the Dan Tanna $ as an ongoing series . Additionally , the cast of The Love Boat 's Angels Boat Angels Street Daytime Is Right 's Make ) are used for promotional cameos from other CBS cameos from the two daytime dramas , primetime shows ( including primetime airings ) , and sports properties are common . Price daytime dramas , the NCIS Sports\ its simplest and most common form , a television crossover involves a starring character on a parent show appearing on a spin-off or vice versa because of established character relationships . An obvious example of this type of crossover occurred when Cliff Huxtable Show , on A Different World Woman Million Dollar Man Sommers Goldman Anderson Rudy Wells E. Brooks Austin Austin Sommers Goldman Wells the Vampire Slayer in Los Angeles ; in a striking example , `` Fool '' and `` Darla and Darla , which features characters from the first show , Cheers characters J. R. Ewing Ewing Ewing Shepard Landing Landing Ewing Ewing after Knots Landing Trek Kor Series of Mercy ( from `` The Trouble With Tribbles ( from `` Day '' ) . After the passage of about a century of narrative time , the three onetime adversaries of Captain Kirk Trek Nine Oath and Federation , Arne Darvin '' , but was the principal villain of DS9\ cast ( after hijacking the Defiant had gone back in time hoping to kill Kirk , and it\ 's up to Sisko and preserve the timeline ) inside the TOS T. Kirk and the rest of the Enterprise of the Blue of the Blue Mermaids : Just Add Water Chadwick . Elsewhere . One interpretation of the ending scene of the final episode has been that the entire run of the program was a figment of autistic character Tommy Westphall\ to 280 other shows , comprising what has been called `` the Tommy Westphall Universe \n\nEighteen months after the battle between Superman Zod , [ N Superman Bruce Wayne City for twenty years , sees Superman 's form of justice , Clark Kent 's civilian identity ) seeks to expose him via Daily Planet learns that Russian weapon trafficker Anatoli Knyazev mogul Lex Luthor unsuccessfully tries to persuade Senator June Finch following Zod\ and metahuman threats . He instead makes alternative plans with Finch\ 's body and the Kryptonian to steal encrypted data from the company\ 's mainframe , but has it taken from him by an antiquities dealer named Diana Prince dreams of a post-apocalyptic world where he leads a group of rebels against an evil Superman Lane\ 2 ] Upon discovers Luthor\ herself , who is shown in a photo taken during World War I. Wayne Pennyworth a Congressional on the validity of his actions , a bomb smuggled by Luthor . Believing he should have detected the bomb , and frustrated by his failure to save them , Superman breaks into LexCorp , he builds a powered exoskeleton , creates a kryptonite grenade launcher , and a kryptonite-tipped spear . Meanwhile , Luthor out of exile , Luthor and Martha Kent 's adoptive mother . He reveals to Superman that he manipulated Superman by fueling their distrust for each other . Luthor kill Batman 's life . Superman , but instead Batman and eventually subdues him with the aid of a kryptonite gas . Before Batman with the spear , Superman to `` save Martha 's mother , confusing him long enough for Lois meant . Realizing how far he has fallen and unwilling to let an innocent die , Batman , while Superman on the scout ship.\n\nLuthor executes his backup plan , unleashing a genetically engineered monster with DNA from both Zod\ 3 ] Diana Prince and Superman realizes its vulnerability to kryptonite , and retrieves the spear to kill it . In the creature\ 's last moments , it kills Superman confronts him in prison , warning Luthor that he will always be watching him . Luthor 's death has made the world vulnerable to powerful alien threats . A memorial is held for Superman . Clark Wayne Prince . Martha , which contains an engagement ring from Clark expresses his regrets to Diana about how he failed Superman 's files , to help protect the world in Superman\ 's coffin levitates.\n\nFiction in some media , such as most television programs and many comic book titles , is understood [ by whom ? ] to require the contribution of multiple authors and does not by itself create a shared universe and is considered a collaborative art form . Incidental appearances , such as that of d\'Artagnan in Cyrano , are considered literary cameo appearances . More substantial interaction between characters from different sources is often marketed as a crossover . While crossovers occur in a shared universe , not all crossovers are intended to merge their settings\ ' back-stories and are instead used for marketing , parody , or to explore `` what-if '' scenarios . [ 6 ] fanon may instead find some degree of consensus within the setting\ 's fandom . [ 9 ] \n\nSome writers , in an effort to ensure that a canon can be established and to keep details of the setting believable , employ tools to correct contradictions and errors that result from multiple contributors working over a long period of time . One such tool is retconning , short for `` retroactive continuity '' , which resolves errors in continuity that came about through previously-written conflicting material . [ 10 ] \n\nReaders may also object when a story or series is integrated into a shared universe , feeling it `` requir [ es ] \n\nBlacksmith Will Turner Jack Sparrow 's love , Elizabeth Swann 's mutinous former first mate , Hector Barbossa wants revenge against Barbossa Pearl Gold.\n\nLord Cutler Beckett India Trading Company and Elizabeth Jack Sparrow offers clemency if Will 's compass in a bid to find the Dead Man\ inside , the heart of villainous Davy Jones\xe2\x80\x94which control of the seas . However , Jack to escape from an unpaid debt with Jones captain of the Black Pearl ' ship , the Flying Dutchman.\n\nLord Beckett Jones Dutchman India Trading Co. , Elizabeth , and the crew of the Black Pearl Jack Sparrow Jones\ . As one of the Nine Pirate Lords is needed in order to release an ancient goddess with the power to defeat Beckett\ Sparrow of Youth . She forces Jack Anne\ , a ship captained by the infamous pirate Blackbeard 's father . Both are also in search of the Fountain : Angelica to escape a prophecy of his demise at the hands of a one-legged man . Joining the hunt is former pirate captain Barbossa George II\ , who is in a race against the Spanish for the Fountain group of ghostly Spanish Royal Navy Sparrow\ Armando Salazar 's Triangle seeks out the legendary Trident of Poseidon \n\nShortly before the release of On Stranger Tides was planning to shoot the fifth and the sixth films back-to-back , [ 3 ] although it was later revealed that only the fifth film was in development . On March R\xc3\xb8nning Men September Bruckheimer sequel is still possible if Dead Men Tell No Tales 2017 , Kaya Scodelario Shortly after , it was announced that R\xc3\xb8nning is being eyed to direct the film . [ 7 ] \n\nIn October is planning on restarting the franchise with Rhett Reese Wernick Bruckheimer has not yet made any official announcements . [ 8 ] In December Disney Studios President , Sean Bailey Sparrow ] and Rhett 've tasked them with . `` [ 9 ] However , on February had left the project and development on the potential reboot of the series is unknown . [ 10 ] is the fifth Pixar ( voiced by Alexander Gould ( voiced by Albert Brooks ( voiced by Ellen DeGeneres Harbour learns to take risks and let little Nemo is the seventeenth Pixar , ( voiced by Ellen DeGeneres to find her long-lost parents , Jenny , as well as exploring the idea of her being reunited with her family . [ 1 ] It takes place one year after Finding Nemo Bay . [ 2 ] [ 3 ] \n\nDirector Andrew Stanton 2016 about the possibility of a third Finding Nemo 2019 , there has been no further word on the future of the franchise.\n\nBillionaire industrialist Tony Stark April hired Jon Favreau Man Marcum Holloway Fergus Ostby [ 17 ] Favreau August Downey was cast in the title role in September photography began on March 's captivity in Afghanistan County . [ 21 ] Production Company Vista Angeles , [ 22 ] with additional filming at Edwards Air Force Base [ Palace Vegas . [ 24 ] Iron Union Street , on April 30 , and in the United 2 . [ 26 ] \n\nThe L. Jackson Fury regarding the `` Avenger Initiative said that he included the scene as `` a little tip of the hat for the fans ... a way to sort of tee up The Avengers . '' Jackson America\ artist as a joke , and Favreau , scientist Bruce Banner Ross seeks to cure himself and prevent his condition from being weaponized . [ 30 ] \n\nIn January Marvel character from Universal Pictures failed to meet a deadline to develop a sequel to director Ang Lee\ . [ 32 ] Universal films . [ 32 ] hired Louis Leterrier Hulk initially turned down the job out of respect for Lee Penn 2006 , Edward Norton Banner 's script , [ 34 ] although Penn began on July , [ 35 ] with additional filming in New York City de Janeiro Amphitheatre 8 , 2008 , and was released on June [ 38 ] \n\nThe Man , [ 39 ] the former of which is set six months after the events of Iron Man briefly reprised his role from Iron Man Stark said that the filmmakers `` were just cross-pollinating our superheroes . It happens to be a scene where I basically approach [ actor William Hurt\ Ross ] America release . [ 42 ] \n\nAfter Tony Stark Man government demands he hand over his technology . Meanwhile , a rival industrialist and a Russian scientist conspire to use his own technology against him . [ 43 ] \n\nImmediately following the successful release of Iron Man 2008 , Marvel Studios Man Favreau Theroux and Downey 2008 , Downey Cheadle Howard Rhodes Jackson Fury Man Johansson Widow photography began April Masonic Temple , California Studios Beach . [ 51 ] Other locations included Edwards Air Force Base , [ 53 ] and the Sepulveda Dam Man Capitan Theatre Angeles on April 28 and May States on May \n\nThe Man Hulk . [ 39 ] The filmmakers continued to refer to other Marvel America\ explained , `` We introduced Captain America\ Man . safe house contains several Easter Hulk films , including one pointing toward a region of Africa Panther young Peter Parker Man saves from a drone ; the appearance was confirmed in June actor Tom Holland Feige : Homecoming Watts 's hammer in a crater . [ 59 ] \n\nThor , crown prince of Asgard and stripped of his powers after he reignites a dormant war . As his brother , Loki must prove himself worthy and reclaim his hammer Mj\xc3\xb6lnir Protosevich in April Pictures 2007 Marvel Vaughn 2008 . [ 62 ] In September Branagh . [ 10 ] In May Hemsworth Hiddleston . [ 64 ] Both actors were contracted to star in several films . [ 65 ] Marvel Edward Miller Stentz Payne began on January Angeles , [ 66 ] before moving to Galisteo Mexico . [ 67 ] Thor 17 , 2011 at the Event Cinemas Street [ 68 ] and a U.S. 2 at the El Capitan Theatre Angeles . [ 69 ] The film was released internationally from April 6 in the United \n\nThe Hulk Man Man Gregg Man Man . agent Phil Coulson . About his role in Thor Coulson Man chose ] to put him more into the universe of it . `` [ 71 ] After signing on to appear as Clint Barton / Hawkeye , Jeremy Renner . [ 72 ] Branagh breaks in the S.H.I.E.L.D 's Hawkeye , watching as Erik Selvig Fury . [ 74 ] The scene was directed by Joss Whedon Stellan Skarsg\xc3\xa5rd , said the scene was not included when he first read the screenplay for Thor . [ 76 ] \n\nIn 1942 , Steve Rogers Army in World War II America Skull science division known as Hydra April hired David Self America Joe Johnston 2008 , [ 12 ] and Christopher Markus McFeely 2010 , Chris Evans America Weaving Skull began on June Kingdom , [ 80 ] Caerwent and Liverpool 19 , 2011 , at the El Capitan Theatre Angeles , [ 83 ] and was released in the United 22 , and in international markets starting July \n\nThe Tesseract post-credits scene appears as a MacGuffin America Avenger Cooper Stark Stark Expo hosts in Iron Man 's Nick Fury 's The Avengers after the credits . [ 88 ] \n\nNick Fury , gathers the superheroes Iron Man , Captain America , Black Widow to fight Thor\ , who plots to subjugate the Earth Penn Hulk 2007 . [ 90 ] In April Whedon 's script . [ 14 ] Marvel Norton Banner / Hulk 2010 , Mark Ruffalo , Evans , Johansson , Hiddleston reprised their respective roles from previous films . [ 93 ] Principal 2011 in Albuquerque Mexico , Ohio , [ 94 ] and New York City . [ 95 ] The premiere was held on April Capitan Theatre Angeles , [ 96 ] and the film was released in the United 4 . [ 97 ] \n\nGwyneth Paltrow Potts Man Man 's insistence . Prior had not intended the film to include supporting characters from the heroes\ ' individual films , commenting , `` You need to separate the characters from their support systems in order to create the isolation you need for a team . `` [ 98 ] Avi Arad Pictures and Disney Tower Spider-Man , [ 99 ] but Feige appears in a mid-credits scene , portrayed by Damion Poitier industrialist Tony Stark April hired Jon Favreau Man Marcum Holloway Fergus Ostby [ 17 ] Favreau August Downey was cast in the title role in September photography began on March 's captivity in Afghanistan County . [ 21 ] Production Company Vista Angeles , [ 22 ] with additional filming at Edwards Air Force Base [ Palace Vegas . [ 24 ] Iron Union Street , on April 30 , and in the United 2 . [ 26 ] \n\nThe L. Jackson Fury regarding the `` Avenger Initiative said that he included the scene as `` a little tip of the hat for the fans ... a way to sort of tee up The Avengers . '' Jackson America\ artist as a joke , and Favreau , scientist Bruce Banner Ross seeks to cure himself and prevent his condition from being weaponized . [ 30 ] \n\nIn January Marvel character from Universal Pictures failed to meet a deadline to develop a sequel to director Ang Lee\ . [ 32 ] Universal films . [ 32 ] hired Louis Leterrier Hulk initially turned down the job out of respect for Lee Penn 2006 , Edward Norton Banner 's script , [ 34 ] although Penn began on July , [ 35 ] with additional filming in New York City de Janeiro Amphitheatre 8 , 2008 , and was released on June [ 38 ] \n\nThe Man , [ 39 ] the former of which is set six months after the events of Iron Man briefly reprised his role from Iron Man Stark said that the filmmakers `` were just cross-pollinating our superheroes . It happens to be a scene where I basically approach [ actor William Hurt\ Ross ] America release . [ 42 ] \n\nAfter Tony Stark Man government demands he hand over his technology . Meanwhile , a rival industrialist and a Russian scientist conspire to use his own technology against him . [ 43 ] \n\nImmediately following the successful release of Iron Man 2008 , Marvel Studios Man Favreau Theroux and Downey 2008 , Downey Cheadle Howard Rhodes Jackson Fury Man Johansson Widow photography began April Masonic Temple , California Studios Beach . [ 51 ] Other locations included Edwards Air Force Base , [ 53 ] and the Sepulveda Dam Man Capitan Theatre Angeles on April 28 and May States on May \n\nThe Man Hulk . [ 39 ] The filmmakers continued to refer to other Marvel America\ explained , `` We introduced Captain America\ Man . safe house contains several Easter Hulk films , including one pointing toward a region of Africa Panther young Peter Parker Man saves from a drone ; the appearance was confirmed in June actor Tom Holland Feige : Homecoming Watts 's hammer in a crater . [ 59 ] \n\nThor , crown prince of Asgard and stripped of his powers after he reignites a dormant war . As his brother , Loki must prove himself worthy and reclaim his hammer Mj\xc3\xb6lnir Protosevich in April Pictures 2007 Marvel Vaughn 2008 . [ 62 ] In September Branagh . [ 10 ] In May Hemsworth Hiddleston . [ 64 ] Both actors were contracted to star in several films . [ 65 ] Marvel Edward Miller Stentz Payne began on January Angeles , [ 66 ] before moving to Galisteo Mexico . [ 67 ] Thor 17 , 2011 at the Event Cinemas Street [ 68 ] and a U.S. 2 at the El Capitan Theatre Angeles . [ 69 ] The film was released internationally from April 6 in the United \n\nThe Hulk Man Man Gregg Man Man . agent Phil Coulson . About his role in Thor Coulson Man chose ] to put him more into the universe of it . `` [ 71 ] After signing on to appear as Clint Barton / Hawkeye , Jeremy Renner . [ 72 ] Branagh breaks in the S.H.I.E.L.D 's Hawkeye , watching as Erik Selvig Fury . [ 74 ] The scene was directed by Joss Whedon Stellan Skarsg\xc3\xa5rd , said the scene was not included when he first read the screenplay for Thor . [ 76 ] \n\nIn 1942 , Steve Rogers Army in World War II America Skull science division known as Hydra April hired David Self America Joe Johnston 2008 , [ 12 ] and Christopher Markus McFeely 2010 , Chris Evans America Weaving Skull began on June Kingdom , [ 80 ] Caerwent and Liverpool 19 , 2011 , at the El Capitan Theatre Angeles , [ 83 ] and was released in the United 22 , and in international markets starting July \n\nThe Tesseract post-credits scene appears as a MacGuffin America Avenger Cooper Stark Stark Expo hosts in Iron Man 's Nick Fury 's The Avengers after the credits . [ 88 ] \n\nNick Fury , gathers the superheroes Iron Man , Captain America , Black Widow to fight Thor\ , who plots to subjugate the Earth Penn Hulk 2007 . [ 90 ] In April Whedon 's script . [ 14 ] Marvel Norton Banner / Hulk 2010 , Mark Ruffalo , Evans , Johansson , Hiddleston reprised their respective roles from previous films . [ 93 ] Principal 2011 in Albuquerque Mexico , Ohio , [ 94 ] and New York City . [ 95 ] The premiere was held on April Capitan Theatre Angeles , [ 96 ] and the film was released in the United 4 . [ 97 ] \n\nGwyneth Paltrow Potts Man Man 's insistence . Prior had not intended the film to include supporting characters from the heroes\ ' individual films , commenting , `` You need to separate the characters from their support systems in order to create the isolation you need for a team . `` [ 98 ] Avi Arad Pictures and Disney Tower Spider-Man , [ 99 ] but Feige appears in a mid-credits scene , portrayed by Damion Poitier Stone Stones , from the planet Xandar , Thanos , Cull Obsidian Midnight Glaive\xe2\x80\x94intercept . [ N Stone , Thanos , overpowers Hulk and Heimdall to Earth before being killed . Thanos departs with his lieutenants and obliterates the ship.\n\nHulk crash-lands at the Sanctum Sanctorum York City Banner Strange about Thanos\ recruits Tony Stark and Obsidian Stone , drawing the attention of Peter Parker captures Strange Stone and Parker 's spaceship , Banner Rogers stays behind to guard the Sanctum.\n\nIn Edinburgh and Glaive Maximoff in order to retrieve the Mind Stone 's forehead . Rogers , Natasha Romanoff Wilson Rhodes at the Avengers Facility offers to sacrifice himself by having Maximoff Stone from retrieving it , but Maximoff , which he believes has the resources to remove the stone without destroying Vision.\n\nThe respond to a distress call from the Asgardian ship and rescue Thor seeks the Reality Stone on Knowhere and Groot to Nidavellir create Stormbreaker . On Knowhere Quill , Drax find Thanos Stone kidnaps Gamora Stone from torture . Thanos travel to Vormir Skull Stone reluctantly kills Gamora to meet her on Thanos\ . Stark kill Maw . Landing on Titan , Drax . The group forms a plan to remove Thanos\ Gauntlet uses the Time Stone loses . Thanos deduces that Thanos . Enraged attacks him , allowing Thanos is seriously wounded by Thanos surrenders the Time Stone.\n\nIn Wakanda reunites with Bucky Barnes ' army invades . The Avengers , alongside T\'Challa forces , mount a defense while Shuri Stone . Banner , fights in Stark\ armor . Thor , and Groot , Obsidian are killed and their army is routed . Despite Maximoff\ Stone arrives and reverts time to remove it from Vision\ , but Thanos Gauntlet of all life across the universe disintegrates , including Barnes , T\'Challa , Maximoff , Mantis , Quill , and Parker Hill Fury is able to transmit a signal first . [ N Stark remain on Titan , M\'Baku , Rhodes , Rogers , and Thor battlefield . Meanwhile , Thanos Panther Tribe . Over centuries , the Wakandans use the vibranium to develop advanced technology and isolate themselves from the world by posing as a Third World 's King T\'Chaka , who is working undercover in Oakland . T\'Chaka of assisting black-market arms dealer Ulysses Klaue . N\'Jobu\ , another undercover Wakandan 's suspicions.\n\nIn the present day , following T\'Chaka\ N his son T\'Challa , the leader of the Dora Milaje 's ex-lover Nakia and younger sister Shuri Tribe\ challenges T\'Challa defeats M\'Baku and his accomplice Erik Stevens artifact from a London 's friend and Okoye\ urges him to bring Klaue , and Nakia , South Korea plans to sell the artifact to CIA K. Ross firefight erupts and Klaue , who reluctantly releases him to Ross\ tells Ross 's international image is a front for a technologically advanced civilization . Erik as Ross . Rather , T\'Challa to Wakanda heals Ross confronts Zuri . Zuri planned to share Wakanda\ arrested N\'Jobu and forced T\'Chaka ordered Zuri had disappeared and left behind N\'Jobu\ , a U.S. '' . Meanwhile , Killmonger and takes his body to Wakanda and claim to the throne . Killmonger to ritual combat , where he kills Zuri , and hurls him over a waterfall to his presumed death . Killmonger extracts one first . Killmonger and his army , prepares to distribute shipments of Wakandan , Ramonda flee to the Jabari Tribe , rescued by the Jabari 's life . Healed by Nakia\ returns to fight Killmonger Panther and his army fight Shuri , and the Dora Milaje remotely pilots a jet and shoots down planes carrying the vibranium weapons . M\'Baku arrive to reinforce T\'Challa , W\'Kabi 's vibranium mine , T\'Challa 's suit and stabs him . Killmonger died , to be run by Nakia . In a mid-credits scene , T\'Challa Nations to reveal Wakanda\ helps Bucky Barnes `` Bucky is dispatched from a Hydra to intercept an automobile carrying a case of super-soldier serum . In the present day , approximately one year after Ultron\ at the hands of the Avengers N Steve Rogers Romanoff Wilson Maximoff Rumlow . Rumlow . Maximoff humanitarian workers.\n\nU.S . Secretary Thaddeus Ross Nations ) is preparing to pass the Sokovia Accords panel to oversee and control the team . The Avengers are divided : Tony Stark 's creation and Sokovia\ has more faith in his own judgment than that of a government . Meanwhile , Helmut Zemo ' old Hydra ' brainwashing . At a conference in Vienna T\'Chaka . Security , whom T\'Chaka\ , vows to kill . Informed by Sharon Carter ' whereabouts and the authorities\ ' intentions to kill him , Rogers childhood friend and war comrade\xe2\x80\x94himself . Rogers and Wilson to Bucharest and the authorities , but all four , including T\'Challa , are apprehended.\n\nImpersonating a psychiatrist sent to interview Barnes recites the words to make Barnes obey him . He questions Barnes , then sends him on a rampage to cover his own escape . Rogers and sneaks him away . When Barnes regains his senses , he explains that Zemo bomber and wanted the location of the Siberian Hydra , Rogers go rogue , and recruit Maximoff Barton Lang 's permission , Stark , T\'Challa Rhodes , and Peter Parker 's team intercepts Rogers\ Airport allows Rogers and Barnes to escape . The rest of Rogers\ prison , while Rhodes , and Romanoff was framed by Zemo to give him Rogers\ , Stark facility and strikes a truce with Rogers , unaware that they were secretly followed by T\'Challa , who then shows them footage that reveals that the automobile Barnes 's parents , whom Barnes kept this from him , Stark destroys Barnes\ disables Stark\ , leaving his shield behind . Satisfied that he has avenged his family\ 's deaths in Sokovia ' actions by successfully fracturing them , Zemo and taken to the authorities.\n\nIn the aftermath , Stark with exoskeletal leg braces that allow him to walk again , while Rogers . In a mid-credits scene , Barnes , chooses to return to cryogenic sleep until a cure for his brainwashing is found . In a post-credits scene , Parker of New York N Adrian Toomes of Damage Control . ) , a partnership between Tony Stark government . Enraged at being driven out of business , Toomes technology they have already scavenged and use it to create and sell advanced weapons . Eight years later , Peter Parker to help with an internal dispute , [ N School and Technology tells him he is not yet ready to become a full Avenger.\n\nParker . One night , after preventing criminals from robbing an ATM , Parker apartment where his best friend Ned comes across Toomes\ Brice / Shocker Schultz Davis saves Davis and dropped in a lake , nearly drowning after becoming tangled in a parachute built into his suit . He is rescued by Stark and warns him against further involvement with the criminals . Toomes with one of their weapons , and Schultz and Ned , removing its power core . When a tracking device on Schultz , Parker , D.C. and Parker implanted in the Spider-Man tries to stop Toomes . truck , but is trapped inside the truck , causing him to miss the decathlon tournament . When he discovers that the power core is an unstable Chitauri races to the Washington Monument and their friends in an elevator . Evading local authorities , Parker . Returning to New York City persuades Davis ' whereabouts . Aboard the Staten Island Ferry captures Toomes\ Gargan escapes and a malfunctioning weapon tears the ferry in half . Stark save the passengers and takes away the suit as a result of his recklessness.\n\nParker returns to his high school life , and eventually asks Liz learns that Toomes father . Deducing Parker\ 's account about him , Toomes realizes Toomes . plane transporting weapons from Avengers Tower suit and races to Toomes\ , but defeats him with the help of Ned destroys the building\ 's support beams and leaves Parker escapes the rubble and intercepts the plane , steering it to crash on the beach near Coney Island continue fighting , ending with Parker ' life after the damaged Vulture moves away , and Parker to join the Avengers returns Parker\ May approaches Toomes has heard that Toomes 's real identity , which Toomes denies.\n\nIn 2014 , Peter Quill , Drax , and Baby Groot . Ayesha race , has the Guardians protect valuable batteries from an inter-dimensional monster in exchange for Gamora\ , who was caught attempting to steal the batteries . After Rocket attacks the Guardians\ 's father , Ego , Gamora to his home planet . Rocket remain behind to repair the ship and guard Nebula.\n\nAyesha Udonta community for child trafficking , to recapture the Guardians . They capture Rocket hesitates to turn over Quill leads a mutiny with help from Nebula imprisons Rocket aboard the latter\ 's ship and executes his loyalists by releasing them into space . Nebula , whom she blames for the torture inflicted on her by their father , Thanos and Yondu and Kraglin loyalist , free Rocket , and they destroy the ship and its crew as they escape , though not before Taserface , a god-like Celestial 's mother Meredith hired Yondu after Meredith\ has been searching for him ever since . He teaches Quill power . Nebula 's planet and tries to kill Gamora to collect the children , but killed them all when they failed to access the Celestial 's influence , Quill fights back when Ego reveals that he gave Meredith 's na\xc3\xafve empath servant , grows close to Drax 's plan . Gamora also learn of the plan as Rocket , Groot arrive . As they come under attack from the Sovereign\ 's brain at the planet\ 's core . Rocket plants on the brain . Quill with his newfound Celestial to escape . The bomb explodes , killing Ego , who realizes that the reason Yondu 's other progeny , and that Yondu 's true `` daddy '' . Having reconciled with Gamora still chooses to leave and resume her quest to kill Thanos , which is attended by Kraglin ships , acknowledging Yondu\ again.\n\nIn a series of mid- and post-credit scenes , Kraglin 's telekinetic arrow and control-fin ; Ravager Ogord has grown into a teenager ; [ N Ayesha ; [ N and a group of uninterested Watchers abandon their informant , who is discussing his experiences on Earth.\n\nTwo , [ N Thor , who reveals that Thor\ is no longer on Asgard , once Surtur Flame 's vault . Thor and takes his crown , believing he has prevented Ragnar\xc3\xb6k.\n\nThor to find Heimdall posing as Odin , Thor Strange , they locate Odin . Odin is imminent despite Thor\ , to escape from a prison she was sealed in long ago . Hela 's armies , conquering the Nine Realms , but Odin dies as Thor watch on , and Hela 's hammer Mjolnir Bridge , she defeats its army and kills the Warriors Three , and appoints the Asgardian Skurge plans to use the Bifr\xc3\xb6st 's empire , but Heimdall and begins hiding other Asgardians.\n\nThor , a garbage planet surrounded by wormholes . A slave trader designated Scrapper 's ruler , the Grandmaster has already ingratiated himself . Thor , a legendary force of female warriors who were killed fighting Hela 's Contest , facing his old friend Hulk gets the upper hand , but the Grandmaster 's victory . Still enslaved after the fight , Thor and 142 to help him save Asgard that brought Hulk . Hulk to the Quinjet Romanoff Banner Grandmaster to find Thor , but the pair come to blows and Loki at the hands of Hela , she takes Loki provides the group with the means to steal one of the Grandmaster\ dubious \xe2\x80\x93 two aliens named Korg , stage a revolution . Loki anticipates this and leaves him behind , where Korg , and the gladiators soon find him . Thor , Banner , where Hela\ and the remaining Asgardians in pursuit of the sword that controls the Bifr\xc3\xb6st chooses to become Hulk , while Thor and her warriors . Loki , facing Hela that helps him realize only Ragnar\xc3\xb6k to retrieve Surtur\ Flame is reborn and destroys Asgard the Grandmaster\ , now king , decides to take his people to Earth 2 ] In a post-credits scene , the Grandmaster , the sorcerer Kaecilius and behead its librarian . They steal a few pages from an ancient , mystical text belonging to the Ancient One , including Kaecilius One and his followers escape.\n\nIn New York City Strange surgeon and former lover Christine Palmer vainly pursues experimental surgeries to heal his hands , nearly bankrupting himself . Strange Pangborn directs Strange , where he is taken in by Mordo One One demonstrates her power to Strange Dimension , whose arrogance and ambition remind her of Kaecilius.\n\nStrange One , and from ancient books in the library that is now guarded by Master Wong learns that Earth , in New York City , and Hong Kong . The sorcerers\ ' task is to protect the Sanctums instead chose to channel mystical energy only into walking again . Strange progresses quickly , and secretly reads the text from which Kaecilius of Agamotto and Wong against breaking the laws of nature , drawing a comparison to Kaecilius\ of the Dark Dimension destroys the London Sanctum 's protection . The zealots then attack the New York Sanctum holds them off with the help of the Cloak until Mordo One becomes disillusioned with the Ancient One reveals that the Ancient One Dimension Dimension York mortally wounds the Ancient One Kong 's steadfast nature in order to defeat Kaecilius and Mordo Kong dead , the Sanctum Dimension . Strange to reverse time and save Wong Dimension . After repeatedly killing Strange finally gives in to Strange\ and take Kaecilius breaking the loop.\n\nDisillusioned by Strange One defying nature\ 's laws , Mordo returns the Eye , and takes up residence in the New York Sanctum decides to help Thor to Earth to search for their father Odin 1 ] In a post-credits scene , Mordo and steals the mystical energy that possessed him , telling him that Earth Lang Accords N Hank Pym van Dyne 's wife , Janet , might be trapped there after shrinking to sub-atomic levels in 1987 . When he had previously visited the quantum realm , Scott , and now he receives an apparent message from her.\n\nWith only three days left of house arrest , Scott about Janet 's actions with the Avengers . Hope kidnap Scott agent Jimmy Woo to be confirmation that she is alive , the trio work to build a stable quantum tunnel so they can take a vehicle to the quantum realm and retrieve her . They arrange to buy a part needed for the tunnel from black market dealer Sonny Burch 's research and double-crosses them . Donning the Wasp fights off Sonny tries to help fight off this `` ghost '' , but the woman escapes with Hank\ Foster and Scott helps them locate the lab , where the ghost captures the trio and reveals herself to be Ava Starr , another of Hank\ 's unstable state . Bill , whom they plan to cure using Janet\ , Hank , Scott , Hope are able to contact Janet learns the trio\ 's location from Scott\ , Dave , and informs a contact at the FBI warns Scott Woo and Hope , allowing Ava and Hope and Hope while Hank , but Burch and Hope to begin forcibly taking Janet\ , Dave help incapacitate Sonny and Hope . Hank return safely from the quantum realm , and Janet to temporarily stabilize her . When the authorities arrive , everyone flees the scene . A regretful Ava to leave her behind , though he refuses and the pair go into hiding.\n\nScott returns home once again , in time for a now suspicious Woo goes to work with his friends at their security company and rekindles his relationship with Hope and Janet unshrinks their old house on the beach.\n\nIn a mid-credits scene , Hank , Hope plan to harvest quantum energy to help Ava is in the quantum realm doing this , the other three disintegrate . [ N \n\nBillionaire Stark April hired Jon Favreau Man Marcum Holloway Fergus Ostby [ 17 ] Favreau August Downey was cast in the title role in September photography began on March 's captivity in Afghanistan County . [ 21 ] Production Company Vista Angeles , [ 22 ] with additional filming at Edwards Air Force Base [ Palace Vegas . [ 24 ] Iron Union Street , on April 30 , and in the United 2 . [ 26 ] \n\nThe L. Jackson Fury regarding the `` Avenger Initiative said that he included the scene as `` a little tip of the hat for the fans ... a way to sort of tee up The Avengers . '' Jackson America\ artist as a joke , and Favreau , scientist Bruce Banner Ross seeks to cure himself and prevent his condition from being weaponized . [ 30 ] \n\nIn January Marvel character from Universal Pictures failed to meet a deadline to develop a sequel to director Ang Lee\ . [ 32 ] Universal films . [ 32 ] hired Louis Leterrier Hulk initially turned down the job out of respect for Lee Penn 2006 , Edward Norton Banner 's script , [ 34 ] although Penn began on July , [ 35 ] with additional filming in New York City de Janeiro Amphitheatre 8 , 2008 , and was released on June [ 38 ] \n\nThe Man , [ 39 ] the former of which is set six months after the events of Iron Man briefly reprised his role from Iron Man Stark said that the filmmakers `` were just cross-pollinating our superheroes . It happens to be a scene where I basically approach [ actor William Hurt\ Ross ] America release . [ 42 ] \n\nAfter Tony Stark Man government demands he hand over his technology . Meanwhile , a rival industrialist and a Russian scientist conspire to use his own technology against him . [ 43 ] \n\nImmediately following the successful release of Iron Man 2008 , Marvel Studios Man Favreau Theroux and Downey 2008 , Downey Cheadle Howard Rhodes Jackson Fury Man Johansson Widow photography began April Masonic Temple , California Studios Beach . [ 51 ] Other locations included Edwards Air Force Base , [ 53 ] and the Sepulveda Dam Man Capitan Theatre Angeles on April 28 and May States on May \n\nThe Man Hulk . [ 39 ] The filmmakers continued to refer to other Marvel America\ explained , `` We introduced Captain America\ Man . safe house contains several Easter Hulk films , including one pointing toward a region of Africa Panther young Peter Parker Man saves from a drone ; the appearance was confirmed in June actor Tom Holland Feige : Homecoming Watts 's hammer in a crater . [ 59 ] \n\nThor , crown prince of Asgard and stripped of his powers after he reignites a dormant war . As his brother , Loki must prove himself worthy and reclaim his hammer Mj\xc3\xb6lnir Protosevich in April Pictures 2007 Marvel Vaughn 2008 . [ 62 ] In September Branagh . [ 10 ] In May Hemsworth Hiddleston . [ 64 ] Both actors were contracted to star in several films . [ 65 ] Marvel Edward Miller Stentz Payne began on January Angeles , [ 66 ] before moving to Galisteo Mexico . [ 67 ] Thor 17 , 2011 at the Event Cinemas Street [ 68 ] and a U.S. 2 at the El Capitan Theatre Angeles . [ 69 ] The film was released internationally from April 6 in the United \n\nThe Hulk Man Man Gregg Man Man . agent Phil Coulson . About his role in Thor Coulson Man chose ] to put him more into the universe of it . `` [ 71 ] After signing on to appear as Clint Barton / Hawkeye , Jeremy Renner . [ 72 ] Branagh breaks in the S.H.I.E.L.D 's Hawkeye , watching as Erik Selvig Fury . [ 74 ] The scene was directed by Joss Whedon Stellan Skarsg\xc3\xa5rd , said the scene was not included when he first read the screenplay for Thor . [ 76 ] \n\nIn 1942 , Steve Rogers Army in World War II America Skull science division known as Hydra April hired David Self America Joe Johnston 2008 , [ 12 ] and Christopher Markus McFeely 2010 , Chris Evans America Weaving Skull began on June Kingdom , [ 80 ] Caerwent and Liverpool 19 , 2011 , at the El Capitan Theatre Angeles , [ 83 ] and was released in the United 22 , and in international markets starting July \n\nThe Tesseract post-credits scene appears as a MacGuffin America Avenger Cooper Stark Stark Expo hosts in Iron Man 's Nick Fury 's The Avengers after the credits . [ 88 ] \n\nNick Fury , gathers the superheroes Iron Man , Captain America , Black Widow to fight Thor\ , who plots to subjugate the Earth Penn Hulk 2007 . [ 90 ] In April Whedon 's script . [ 14 ] Marvel Norton Banner / Hulk 2010 , Mark Ruffalo , Evans , Johansson , Hiddleston reprised their respective roles from previous films . [ 93 ] Principal 2011 in Albuquerque Mexico , Ohio , [ 94 ] and New York City . [ 95 ] The premiere was held on April Capitan Theatre Angeles , [ 96 ] and the film was released in the United 4 . [ 97 ] \n\nGwyneth Paltrow Potts Man Man 's insistence . Prior had not intended the film to include supporting characters from the heroes\ ' individual films , commenting , `` You need to separate the characters from their support systems in order to create the isolation you need for a team . `` [ 98 ] Avi Arad Pictures and Disney Tower Spider-Man , [ 99 ] but Feige appears in a mid-credits scene , portrayed by Damion Poitier , the Avengers\xe2\x80\x94Tony Stark Rogers , Bruce Banner Romanoff Barton\xe2\x80\x94raid facility commanded by Baron Wolfgang von Strucker . They encounter two of Strucker\ Maximoff Maximoff , while Stark 's scepter.\n\nStark and Banner 's `` Ultron , believing he must eradicate humanity to save Earth 's A.I . and attacks the Avengers at their headquarters . Escaping with the scepter , Ultron 's Sokovia , he recruits the Maximoffs responsible for their parents\ ' deaths by his company\ 's weapons , and goes to the base of arms dealer Ulysses Klaue to obtain Wakandan and the Maximoffs subdues them with haunting visions , causing the Hulk ) to rampage until Stark 1 ] \n\nA 's hallucinations incited , send the team into hiding at a safe house . Thor departs to consult with Dr. Erik Selvig Fury . In Seoul uses Loki\ Helen Cho uploads himself into the body , Wanda turn against Ultron , Romanoff find Ultron captures Romanoff.\n\nThe Avengers secretly uploads J.A.R.V.I.S.\xe2\x80\x94who inside the Internet\xe2\x80\x94into returns to help activate the body , explaining that the gem on its brow\xe2\x80\x94one of the six Infinity '' and the Maximoffs , where Ultron rescues Romanoff for the battle . The Avengers fight Ultron\ arrives in a Helicarrier Hill Rhodes . agents to evacuate civilians . Pietro from gunfire , and a vengeful Wanda 's primary body , which allows one of his drones to activate the machine . The city plummets , but Stark overload the machine and shatter the landmass . In the aftermath , the Hulk by being with her , departs in a Quinjet confronts and seemingly destroys Ultron\ , Hill , and Selvig returns to Asgard leaves and Barton prepare to train new Avengers : Rhodes , Sam Wilson a mid-credits scene , Thanos N Stones Year\ party in 1999 , Tony Stark Hansen that allows recovery from crippling injuries . Disabled scientist Aldrich Killian Idea rejects him . In 2013 , Stark of New York.2 Restless Man suits , creating friction with his girlfriend Pepper Potts.\n\nA has left intelligence agencies bewildered by a lack of forensic evidence . Stark\ Hogan to brazenly issue a televised threat to the Mandarin sends gunship helicopters to destroy Stark\ , who came to warn Stark . Stark Man . pilots to rural Tennessee 's investigation into the Mandarin 's new armor is not fully functional , and lacks sufficient power to return to California , a 10-year-old boy , Stark attack . He discovers the `` bombings '' were triggered by soldiers subjected to Extremis 's flaws . Stark firsthand when Mandarin and Savin resurfaces and kidnaps Potts . American intelligence agencies continue to search for the Mandarin\ Rhodes\xe2\x80\x94the Machine Patriot\xe2\x80\x94lured Man-like 's help , Stark to Miami is actually an English actor named Trevor Slattery 's Extremis behind Slattery\ , Killian to Extremis will help fix Extremis\ , discovering that Killian Ellis Force Patriot saves some surviving passengers and crew but can not stop Killian and destroying Air Force One to an impounded damaged oil tanker where Killian on live television . The Vice President 's orders in exchange for Extremis works to save Potts goes after the President summons his remaining Iron Man , to provide air support . Rhodes and takes him to safety , while Stark has survived the Extremis confronts Killian Man , whose Extremis orders J.A.R.V.I.S Man , while the Vice President are arrested . With Stark\ ' Extremis promises to scale back his life as Iron Man Man.\n\nIn Quill , a group of space pirates led by Yondu Udonta , Quill , a subordinate to the fanatical Kree . Although Quill discovers his theft and issues a bounty for his capture , while Ronan after the orb.\n\nWhen Quill Empire ambushes him and steals it . A fight ensues , drawing in a pair of bounty hunters : the genetically and cybernetically modified raccoon Rocket . Nova Corps prison . A powerful inmate there , Drax due to her association with Ronan , who killed his family . Quill that Gamora to him , though Gamora , unwilling to let him use the orb\ 's power . Learning that Gamora , Rocket , and Drax in Quill\ meets with Gamora\ , to discuss her betrayal . Quill\ , a remote criminal outpost in space built in the giant severed head of a Celestial drunken Drax while the rest of the group meet Gamora\ Tivan opens the orb , revealing an Infinity Stone 's slave Carina , triggering an explosion that engulfs Tivan\ , while the others flee by ship , pursued by Ronan\ 's adoptive sister Nebula destroys Gamora\ 's fighters capture the orb . Quill before following Gamora arrives and retrieves the pair . Rocket , and Groot 's ship to rescue them , but Quill . Quill\ means certain death , but that they can not let him use the Infinity Stone 's flagship , the Dark Aster embeds the Stone in his warhammer , taking its power for himself . He contacts Thanos allies with Ronan.\n\nThe 's group join with the Nova Corps Aster , with Quill\ Aster . Ronan Corps and Gamora and Nebula 's power until Rocket ship through the Dark Aster Aster sacrificing himself to shield the group . Ronan , but Quill and Rocket 's warhammer . Quill , and with Gamora , and Rocket the aftermath , Quill into taking a container supposedly containing the Stone Corps , Yondu to his father per their contract . Quill\ , have their criminal records expunged , and Quill finally opens the last present he received from his mother : a cassette tape filled with her favorite songs . The Guardians leave in the rebuilt Milano a post-credits scene , Tivan 1 ] of New York N Steve Rogers , D.C. . under Director Nick Fury Natasha Romanoff 's counter-terrorism S.T.R.I.K.E Rumlow . vessel from Georges Batroc discovers Romanoff . Rogers , S.H.I.E.L.D.\ and is briefed about Project Insight , when unable to access the data recovered by Romanoff becomes suspicious about Project Insight . official and Secretary Security Alexander Pierce Hill is ambushed by disguised assailants , including a mysterious assassin known as the Winter Soldier escapes to Rogers\ . is compromised and he should trust nobody . Fury Soldier a flash drive containing Romanoff\ Soldier is pronounced dead , and Hill hides the flash drive in the hospital . The next day , Pierce . When Rogers 's information , Pierce , a double agent for Hydra down . Hunted by S.T.R.I.K.E. seeks out the flash drive ; Romanoff decides to trust her after learning that she has encountered the Winter Soldier . bunker in New Jersey Zola reveals that ever since S.H.I.E.L.D War II has secretly operated within its ranks , sowing global chaos with the objective of making humanity surrender its freedom in exchange for security . Rogers and Romanoff . missile destroys the bunker . It is revealed that Pierce 's leader within S.H.I.E.L.D Soldier enlist the help of former USAF Wilson , and acquire his powered wingpack , code named `` Falcon is Hydra\ . agent Jasper Sitwell mole , they force Sitwell developed a data-mining algorithm that can identify individuals that have been , are , or will become threats to Hydra Helicarriers will sweep the globe , using satellite-guided guns to eliminate these individuals . While driving back to the Triskelion , Romanoff are ambushed by the Winter Soldier . During a subsequent fight with Rogers Soldier\ recognizes him as Bucky Barnes , along with Romanoff , is captured by S.T.R.I.K.E deduces that Bucky , and that Hydra . agents , Hill , revealed to have faked his death , is waiting with plans to sabotage the Helicarriers by replacing three of their controller chips . At a bank , Hydra Soldier , Pierce Security Council Insight infiltrates the Triskelion and broadcasts Hydra\ , disguised as one of the Council and accesses his computer . Fury to help him unlock S.H.I.E.L.D.\ can leak classified information , exposing Hydra attempts to escape after revealing he can indirectly kill all the World Security Council ; following a struggle , Fury . Meanwhile , Rogers storm two of the Helicarriers Soldier 's suit he begins to fight Rogers . Rogers fends him off and replaces the final chip , allowing Hill Soldier , Rogers Soldier , throwing Rogers River Soldier . in disarray , Romanoff subcommittee , and Fury Europe 's remaining cells . Rumlow 's destruction , Romanoff . files ) leaves to find a new cover , and Wilson search for the Winter Soldier.\n\nIn lab , Baron Wolfgang von Strucker N and two test subjects whom Strucker Soldier ago , Bor , clashes with the Dark Elf Malekith on the nine realms . After conquering Malekith\ , Bor within a stone column . Unknown to Bor as well as his lieutenant Algrim Elves , Loki . [ N Meanwhile , Thor , Volstagg , repel marauders on Vanaheim ; it is the final battle in a war to pacify the Nine Realms , the `` Rainbow Bridge 2 ] The Asgardians soon learn that the Convergence Realms , astrophysicist Dr. Jane Foster Lewis is teleported to another world , where she is infected by the Aether alerts Thor has moved beyond his near all-seeing vision , leading Thor to Earth finds Foster returns with her to Asgard , recognizing the Aether will not only kill Foster 's release , turns Algrim . During the battle , Malekith search for Foster . Thor\ is killed protecting Foster and Algrim . Despite Odin\ , Thor , who knows of a secret portal to Svartalfheim to lure and confront Malekith . In return , Thor vengeance on Malekith and Sif assisting their escape , Thor , and Foster , Loki into drawing the Aether , but Thor\ merges with the Aether is fatally wounded while killing Algrim , cradling Loki , Thor discover another portal in a nearby cave and reunite in London and Foster\ Erik Selvig\xe2\x80\x94who 's attack on Earth . They learn that Malekith Elves at the center of the Convergence . Thor through various portals and across multiple worlds until one portal separates them , leaving Malekith . Thor to Svartalfheim , where he declines Odin\ of Loki\ 's form transforms into Loki a mid-credits scene , Volstagg visit the Collector to his care , commenting that with the Tesseract , having two Infinity states his desire to acquire the other five Stones . In a post-credits scene , Foster reunite on Earth , a frost monster from Jotunheim\xe2\x80\x94accidentally transported to Earth Pym . after discovering their attempt to replicate his Ant-Man shrinking technology . Believing the technology is dangerous , Pym N Pym\ van Dyne Cross Technologies . Cross , which horrifies Pym.\n\nUpon Lang . Lang unannounced and is chastised by his former wife Maggie , for not providing child support . Unable to hold down a job because of his criminal record , Lang ' crew and commit a burglary . Lang accidentally shrinks himself to the size of an insect . Terrified by the experience , he returns the suit to the house , but is arrested on the way out . Pym in jail and smuggles the suit into his cell to help him break out.\n\nPym , who manipulated Lang into stealing the suit as a test , wants Lang to steal the Yellowjacket from Cross after discovering his intentions , Van Dyne train Lang Dyne about her mother Janet\ , known as the Wasp warns Lang ' headquarters , where he briefly fights Sam Wilson.\n\nCross and hosts an unveiling ceremony at Pym Technologies\ , along with his crew and a swarm of flying ants , infiltrates the building during the event , sabotages the company\ 's servers , and plants explosives . When he attempts to steal the Yellowjacket , he , along with Pym Dyne , who intends to sell both the Yellowjacket and Ant-Man suits to Hydra breaks free and he and Van Dyne agents , though one flees with a vial of Cross\ is shot . Lang , while the explosives detonate , imploding the building as Pym Dyne and attacks Lang is arrested by Paxton takes Cassie into another fight . Lang ' suit and sabotage it to shrink uncontrollably , killing Cross disappears into the quantum realm but manages to reverse the effects and returns to the macroscopic world . Out of gratitude for Lang\ covers for Lang survived and returned from the quantum realm , Pym , Lang , who tells him that Wilson shows Van Dyne prototype suit and offers it to her . In a post-credits scene , Wilson Rogers Barnes Stark N Wilson Stark April hired Jon Favreau Man Marcum Holloway Fergus Ostby [ 17 ] Favreau August Downey was cast in the title role in September photography began on March 's captivity in Afghanistan County . [ 21 ] Production Company Vista Angeles , [ 22 ] with additional filming at Edwards Air Force Base [ Palace Vegas . [ 24 ] Iron Union Street , on April 30 , and in the United 2 . [ 26 ] \n\nThe L. Jackson Fury regarding the `` Avenger Initiative said that he included the scene as `` a little tip of the hat for the fans ... a way to sort of tee up The Avengers . '' Jackson America\ artist as a joke , and Favreau , scientist Bruce Banner Ross seeks to cure himself and prevent his condition from being weaponized . [ 30 ] \n\nIn January Marvel character from Universal Pictures failed to meet a deadline to develop a sequel to director Ang Lee\ . [ 32 ] Universal films . [ 32 ] hired Louis Leterrier Hulk initially turned down the job out of respect for Lee Penn 2006 , Edward Norton Banner 's script , [ 34 ] although Penn began on July , [ 35 ] with additional filming in New York City de Janeiro Amphitheatre 8 , 2008 , and was released on June [ 38 ] \n\nThe Man , [ 39 ] the former of which is set six months after the events of Iron Man briefly reprised his role from Iron Man Stark said that the filmmakers `` were just cross-pollinating our superheroes . It happens to be a scene where I basically approach [ actor William Hurt\ Ross ] America release . [ 42 ] \n\nAfter Tony Stark Man government demands he hand over his technology . Meanwhile , a rival industrialist and a Russian scientist conspire to use his own technology against him . [ 43 ] \n\nImmediately following the successful release of Iron Man 2008 , Marvel Studios Man Favreau Theroux and Downey 2008 , Downey Cheadle Howard Rhodes Jackson Fury Man Johansson Widow photography began April Masonic Temple , California Studios Beach . [ 51 ] Other locations included Edwards Air Force Base , [ 53 ] and the Sepulveda Dam Man Capitan Theatre Angeles on April 28 and May States on May \n\nThe Man Hulk . [ 39 ] The filmmakers continued to refer to other Marvel America\ explained , `` We introduced Captain America\ Man . safe house contains several Easter Hulk films , including one pointing toward a region of Africa Panther young Peter Parker Man saves from a drone ; the appearance was confirmed in June actor Tom Holland Feige : Homecoming Watts 's hammer in a crater . [ 59 ] \n\nThor , crown prince of Asgard and stripped of his powers after he reignites a dormant war . As his brother , Loki must prove himself worthy and reclaim his hammer Mj\xc3\xb6lnir Protosevich in April Pictures 2007 Marvel Vaughn 2008 . [ 62 ] In September Branagh . [ 10 ] In May Hemsworth Hiddleston . [ 64 ] Both actors were contracted to star in several films . [ 65 ] Marvel Edward Miller Stentz Payne began on January Angeles , [ 66 ] before moving to Galisteo Mexico . [ 67 ] Thor 17 , 2011 at the Event Cinemas Street [ 68 ] and a U.S. 2 at the El Capitan Theatre Angeles . [ 69 ] The film was released internationally from April 6 in the United \n\nThe Hulk Man Man Gregg Man Man . agent Phil Coulson . About his role in Thor Coulson Man chose ] to put him more into the universe of it . `` [ 71 ] After signing on to appear as Clint Barton / Hawkeye , Jeremy Renner . [ 72 ] Branagh breaks in the S.H.I.E.L.D 's Hawkeye , watching as Erik Selvig Fury . [ 74 ] The scene was directed by Joss Whedon Stellan Skarsg\xc3\xa5rd , said the scene was not included when he first read the screenplay for Thor . [ 76 ] \n\nIn 1942 , Steve Rogers Army in World War II America Skull science division known as Hydra April hired David Self America Joe Johnston 2008 , [ 12 ] and Christopher Markus McFeely 2010 , Chris Evans America Weaving Skull began on June Kingdom , [ 80 ] Caerwent and Liverpool 19 , 2011 , at the El Capitan Theatre Angeles , [ 83 ] and was released in the United 22 , and in international markets starting July \n\nThe Tesseract post-credits scene appears as a MacGuffin America Avenger Cooper Stark Stark Expo hosts in Iron Man 's Nick Fury 's The Avengers after the credits . [ 88 ] \n\nNick Fury , gathers the superheroes Iron Man , Captain America , Black Widow to fight Thor\ , who plots to subjugate the Earth Penn Hulk 2007 . [ 90 ] In April Whedon 's script . [ 14 ] Marvel Norton Banner / Hulk 2010 , Mark Ruffalo , Evans , Johansson , Hiddleston reprised their respective roles from previous films . [ 93 ] Principal 2011 in Albuquerque Mexico , Ohio , [ 94 ] and New York City . [ 95 ] The premiere was held on April Capitan Theatre Angeles , [ 96 ] and the film was released in the United 4 . [ 97 ] \n\nGwyneth Paltrow Potts Man Man 's insistence . Prior had not intended the film to include supporting characters from the heroes\ ' individual films , commenting , `` You need to separate the characters from their support systems in order to create the isolation you need for a team . `` [ 98 ] Avi Arad Pictures and Disney Tower Spider-Man , [ 99 ] but Feige appears in a mid-credits scene , portrayed by Damion Poitier Asgardian Loki . In exchange for retrieving the Tesseract N an army with which he can subjugate Earth Fury , and his lieutenant Agent Maria Hill Erik Selvig . Agent Phil Coulson suddenly activates and opens a wormhole , allowing Loki . Loki and uses his scepter to enslave Selvig Barton reactivates the `` Avengers Initiative Natasha Romanoff to recruit Dr. Bruce Banner through its gamma radiation emissions . Coulson Stark 's research , and Fury Rogers Stuttgart steals iridium needed to stabilize the Tesseract\ causes a distraction , leading to a brief confrontation with Rogers , and Romanoff 's surrender . While Loki , Thor . After a confrontation with Stark , Thor to S.H.I.E.L.D.\ . Upon arrival , Loki and Stark Avengers and the revelation that S.H.I.E.L.D to develop weapons as a deterrent against hostile extraterrestrials . As the group argues , Barton 's other possessed agents attack the Helicarrier to transform into the Hulk and Rogers attempts to stop the Hulk\ reluctantly fights Barton 's mind control . Loki and ejecting Thor from the airship , while the Hulk . fighter jet . Fury 's death to motivate the Avengers and Rogers , simply defeating them will not be enough ; he needs to overpower them publicly to validate himself as ruler of Earth uses the Tesseract built , to open a wormhole above Stark Tower fleet in space , launching his invasion.\n\nRogers , Stark , Barton rally in defense of New York City arrives and transforms into the Hulk while evacuating civilians . The Hulk and beats him into submission . Romanoff , freed from Loki\ 's scepter can be used to shut down the generator . Meanwhile , Fury\ Security Council Manhattan intercepts the missile and takes it through the wormhole toward the Chitauri mothership and disabling their forces on Earth 's suit runs out of power , and he falls back through the wormhole just as Romanoff goes into freefall , but the Hulk returns Loki to Asgard expresses confidence that the Avengers will return if and when they are needed.\n\nIn a mid-credits scene , the Other confers with his master [ N . In a post-credits scene , the Avengers , the media covers Tony Stark\ Man Vanko Vanko 's . Six months later , [ N Stark Man Expo 's legacy.\n\nThe palladium core in the arc reactor that keeps Stark appoints his personal assistant Pepper Potts CEO Industries , and hires Stark Rushman competes in the Monaco Historic Grand Prix , who wields electrified whips . Stark V , but the suit is severely damaged . Vanko Man 's performance , Stark\ Hammer 's death while breaking him out of prison and asks him to build a line of armored suits to upstage Stark gets drunk while wearing the Mark IV 's best friend , U.S. Air Force Lieutenant Colonel James Rhodes 's Mark II confiscates the Mark II Air Force.\n\nThe Fury , approaches Stark Donuts '' to be Agent Natasha Romanoff Stark . founder whom Fury 's father jointly invented the arc reactor with Stark tried to sell it for profit , Stark to the gulag . Fury some of his father\ 's old material ; a hidden message in the diorama of the 1974 Stark Expo , Stark is still alive , he places the new element in his arc reactor and ends his palladium dependency.\n\nAt the Expo unveils Vanko\ in a heavily weaponized version of the Mark II arrives in the Mark VI , but Vanko ' armor and attacks Iron Man is arrested while Romanoff 's bodyguard Happy Hogan at Hammer\ escapes , but Romanoff II . Stark together defeat Vanko commits suicide by blowing up his suit , along with the defeated drones.\n\nAt a debriefing , Fury that because of Stark\ . intends to use him only as a consultant . Stark receive medals for their heroism . In a post-credits scene , S.H.I.E.L.D Coulson Mexico 3 ] \n\nTony Stark Industries from his father , is in war-torn Afghanistan Colonel James Rhodes '' missile . After the demonstration , the convoy is ambushed and Stark Rings , a fellow captive who is a doctor , implants an electromagnet into Stark\ offers Stark missile for the group , but Tony know that Raza secretly build a small , powerful electric generator called an arc reactor to power Stark\ Rings battles his way out of the cave to find the dying Yinsen Rings\ , Stark Stane that this may ruin Stark builds a sleeker , more powerful version of his improvised armor suit as well as a more powerful arc reactor for his chest . Personal Potts requests details , a suspicious Stark Industries , reporter Christine Everhart that his company\ 's weapons were recently delivered to the Ten Rings 's home village , Gulmira then learns that Stane Industries\ . Stark , where he saves the villagers . While flying home , Stark fighter jets . He reveals his secret identity to Rhodes Rings 's prototype suit and meet with Stane and has the rest of the group killed . Stane sends Potts hired the Ten Rings , but the group reneged . Potts Phil Coulson , an intelligence agency , to inform him of Stane\ 's miniaturized arc reactor , so Stane at his home and takes the one from his chest . Stark and several S.H.I.E.L.D , but he dons his suit and attacks them . Stark , but is outmatched without his new reactor to run his suit at full capacity . The fight carries Stark to the top of the Stark instructs Potts and his armor to fall into the exploding reactor , killing him . The next day , at a press conference , Stark . and publicly admits to being `` Iron Man . Director Nick Fury at home , telling him that Iron Man Initiative , Odin , wages war against the Frost and their leader Laufey . The Asgardian warriors defeat the Frost of Ancient Winters.\n\nIn 2 ] Odin\ prepares to ascend to the throne of Asgard Giants attempt to retrieve the Casket Odin\ travels to Jotunheim , accompanied by his brother Loki and the Warriors Three : Volstagg , and Hogun battle ensues until Odin 's arrogance , Odin as a mortal , accompanied by his hammer Mj\xc3\xb6lnir Mexico Jane Foster Lewis Erik Selvig , which S.H.I.E.L.D Coulson 's data about the wormhole that delivered Thor . Thor 's nearby location , seeks to retrieve it from the facility that S.H.I.E.L.D 's help , he is freed and resigns himself to exile on Earth as he develops a romance with Foster.\n\nLoki 's biological son , adopted by Odin falls into the deep `` Odinsleep '' to recover his strength . Loki 's stead and offers Laufey and retrieve the Casket and the Warriors Three 's rule , attempt to return Thor , gatekeeper of the Bifr\xc3\xb6st\xe2\x80\x94the . Aware sends the Destroyer . The warriors find Thor attacks and defeats them , prompting Thor to offer himself instead . Struck by the Destroyer 's sacrifice proves him worthy to wield Mj\xc3\xb6lnir . Kissing Foster Asgard betrays and kills Laufey 's attempt on Odin\ with the Bifr\xc3\xb6st Bridge arrives and fights Loki Bridge 's plan , stranding himself in Asgard awakens and prevents the brothers from falling into the abyss created in the wake of the bridge\ 's destruction , but Loki rejects his pleas for approval . Thor , admitting he is not ready to be king ; meanwhile , on Earth and her team search for a way to open a portal to Asgard.\n\nIn a post-credits scene , Selvig . facility , where Nick Fury N which Fury prompts Selvig uncover an old , frozen aircraft . In March officer Johann Schmidt , [ N which possesses untold powers , from the town of T\xc3\xb8nsberg Norway.\n\nIn New York City Rogers War II . James '' Barnes again attempts to enlist . Overhearing Rogers\ Abraham Erskine Scientific Reserve , Col. Chester Phillips Carter is unconvinced by Erskine\ is the right person for the procedure but relents after seeing Rogers reveals to Rogers that Schmidt Arnim Zola , intending to use the power to fuel Zola\ discovers Erskine\ Kruger subjects Rogers to the super-soldier treatment , injecting him with a special serum and dosing him with `` vita-rays '' . After Rogers emerges from the experiment taller and more muscular , an undercover Kruger and flees . Rogers pursues and captures Kruger dead and his super-soldier formula lost , U.S Brandt America performing for active servicemen , Rogers ' unit was MIA 's forces . Refusing to believe that Barnes has Carter Stark 's Nazi , freeing Barnes and the other prisoners . Rogers confronts Schmidt Skull escapes and Rogers Dum Dugan Jones Morita Montgomery Falsworth Dernier bases . Stark with advanced equipment , most notably a circular shield made of vibranium , a rare , nearly indestructible metal . Rogers and his team sabotage various Hydra . Rogers and Jones , but Barnes 3 ] Using , the final Hydra leads an attack to stop Schmidt 's aircraft as it takes off . During the subsequent fight , the Tesseract\ physically handles the Tesseract . Stark Square . director Nick Fury approaches Rogers and proposes a mission with worldwide ramifications . [ N \n\nAt Culver University , General Thunderbolt Ross Bruce Banner , regarding an experiment that Ross War II-era hopes to recreate\xe2\x80\x94fails , and the exposure to gamma radiation causes Banner for brief periods of time , whenever his heart rate rises above 200 beats per minute . The Hulk and Betty becomes a fugitive from the U.S. in particular , who wants to weaponize the Hulk.\n\nFive N Banner , Rio in Brazil Blue Green techniques to help keep control , and has not transformed in five months . After Banner , Wisconsin , Ross British Royal Marine Emil Blonsky and defeats Blonsky\ explains how Banner , Blonsky University , who is dating psychiatrist Leonard Samson is attacked a second time by Ross 's forces , tipped off by the suspicious Samson . The ensuing battle outside the university proves futile for Ross\ , whose sanity is faltering , attacks and mocks the Hulk seemingly kills Blonsky . After the Hulk , he and Betty contacts Mr. Blue York City Blue Samuel Sterns he has developed a possible antidote to Banner\ that the antidote may only reverse each individual transformation . Sterns 's blood samples , which Banner , into a large supply , with the intention of applying its `` limitless potential '' to medicine . Fearful 's power falling into the military\ 's hands , Banner University ' forces for a third attempt to take Banner , along with Betty stays behind and orders Sterns 's blood , as he covets the Hulk\ warns that the combination of the super-soldier formula and Banner\ insists . The experiment mutates Blonsky , but drives him insane . He attacks Sterns 's blood in a cut on his forehead , causing him to begin mutating as well.\n\nBlonsky rampages through Harlem is the only one who can stop Blonsky convinces Ross ' helicopter and transforms after hitting the ground . After a long and brutal battle through Harlem defeats Blonsky , the Hulk York.\n\nA is in Bella Coola Columbia Stark at a local bar and informs him that a team is being put together.\n\nThe Star Wars long time ago in a galaxy far , far away . `` [ 4 ] Many species of aliens ( often humanoid ) co-exist with droids who may assist them in their daily routines , and space travel between planets is common due to hyperspace technology . [ 5 ] [ 6 ] is corrupted and overthrown by the Galactic Empire Alliance later gives rise to the New Republic reform as the First Order . [ 10 ] Heroes against the oppressive dictatorship.\n\nA mystical power known as `` the Force binds the galaxy together . `` [ 11 ] Those whom `` the Force is wielded by two major knighthood orders at conflict with each other : the Jedi through non-attachment and arbitration , and the Sith Hamill Skywalker Wars Lucas Wars suggested Hamill IX [ 3 ] A Time 1978 , quoting Lucas Wars Strikes Back Gary Kurtz VII IX [ 6 ] In 1980 , at the time of the release of The Empire Strikes Back said there were seven further Star Wars Steranko magazine published in late 1980 , Lucas Wars also stated that he had `` titles and ten-page story outlines for each of '' the nine episodes . [ 8 ] In an interview with Gary Kurtz said : \n\nIn an interview with Starlog 1981 , Lucas V Strikes Back had already written story treatments for episodes : VI , VIII . Dale Pollock Lucas\ had allowed him to read the plot outlines for the at the time comprising 12 planned Star Wars saw , however were drastically changed after Empire Strikes Back decided not to make the sequel trilogy , and instead finish the story as a trilogy , by ending the storyline with Episode VI . This led Lucas of the Jedi Kurtz New Hope Strikes Back of the Jedi said those were : \n\nAbout the 1980s sequel trilogy drafts , and their surviving elements that could still have been used after Return , in 2012 , Pollock 's vague description , no official information about the 1980s script treatments for the sequel trilogy has been released . Comenting in the announcement of Lucas to Disney said that Disney 's outlines from 1980 as the basis for the sequel trilogy , saying `` That\ bought . `` [ 11 ] \n\nThis period lasted from 1983 to the 2010s , when Lucas of the Jedi gave many hints about many of the plot elements from his discarded 1980s script treatments for the sequel trilogy , or what would happen if he were to make a sequel trilogy . Those discarded plots continued to fascinate fans for decades , as many of them were completely unaffected by the conclusion of the original trilogy ; thus leaving the sequel trilogy a possibility of using them.\n\nWhile many ideas seem to have been retained , these two particular ideas were apparently discarded for Lucasfilm\ 's ownership : \n\nLucas\ ' ideas that have been somewhat partially or completely retained by the trilogy that ultimately was made , include : \n\nDuring the early 1990s , Lucas Zahn Wars Trilogy decided to further cancel the sequel trilogy , with many hundreds of subsequent other works set after the original trilogy . From 1997 onwards , Lucas [ 22 ] [ 24 ] said : `` Everyone said , \'Well Wars Insider Skywalker was not made with the Star Wars would return to the universe he had created , by writing and directing , what would become the prequel trilogy of Episodes , and III 1999 issue of Vanity Fair said : `` When you see it in six parts , you\ 'll understand . It really ends at part six . I never had a story for the sequels , for the later ones . `` [ 26 ] [ 27 ] In early May II and while Lucas III Wars , VIII were posted on the Internet noted that there would be no Star Wars Episodes VII , and IX Wars said , `` Probably not , it\ 's my thing . `` [ 26 ] [ 27 ] In August York City Menace described the `` nine year commitment '' required to make a Star Wars what I said as a joke was , \'Maybe when Harrison are in their 70s , we\ 'll come back and do another version.\ ' The thing I didn\'t realize then , and that I do realize now very clearly , is that not only would they be in their 70s , but I would be in my 70s too . `` [ 30 ] \n\nLucas also noted `` Ultimately , the saga will be six films , a 12-hour story . Then people can watch all six films together as they were intended to be seen . `` [ 28 ] \n\nIn 2007 , Lucas said : `` The movies were the story of Anakin Skywalker Skywalker saves the galaxy and redeems his father , that\ 's where that story ends . `` [ 32 ] In another 2008 interview in Total Film ruled out anybody else making Star Wars Universe Wars Wars 've left pretty explicit instructions for there not to be any more features . There will definitely be no Episodes VII\xe2\x80\x93IX 's because there isn\'t any story . I mean , I never thought of anything . And now there have been novels about the events after Episode VI Wars Vader dies , he doesn\'t come back to life , the Emperor doesn\'t get married ... '' [ 33 ] \n\nIn May and Disney CEO Bob Iger by Disney few months later , Lucas , Force-beings [ 36 ] VII 2015 release , [ 38 ] but decided to leave the franchise in the hands of other filmmakers , announcing in January \n\nIn , Lucas stated , `` If I\ Menace Disney\ , and turning over the company presidency to former co-chair Kathleen Kennedy stated , `` I always said I wasn\'t going to do any more , and that\ 's true , because I\ 'm unwilling to turn it over to Kathy said at some point , he had planned to finish Episode VII 2015 and then sell the company afterward . But Disney saying `` It\ plot outlines , the one written in the 1980s and the one written in the 2010s , were turned over to Disney Iger acquired Lucasfilm \n\nPreviously mentioned veteran writer of Star Wars was interviewed about the at-the-time just-announced sequel trilogy in 2012 , he confirmed the sequel trilogy was never meant to be based on his Thrawn novels nor the expanded universe but said he had been briefed years before on Lucas\ ( Zahn before the first Thrawn , the sequel trilogy also meant the end of most of the existing Star Wars of the old expanded universe content would continue to be available under the Star Wars brand , which was created to brand the non-canonical works of the franchise . Only Episodes I-VI Wars produced after the announcement , would also be considered remain canon . [ 46 ] \n\nThe VII Awakens co-writer on two sequels in the original trilogy Lawrence Kasdan Abrams in 2013 , the film had seemingly discarded his ideas for Episode VII in January animated movie Strange Magic revealed that ultimately , Disney , they came up to the decision that they didn\'t really want to do those . So they made up their own . So on screen in Star Wars Awakens ] details about Lucas\ of Star Wars . In January Ranch Lucas VII 's story to happen in Episode VII VIII dying at the end of the film ; this element was instead incorporated into Johnson\ Conversely Hamill Lucas\ IX dying there instead of a simple cameo , leaving his sister Leia . [ 49 ] No or microbiotic worlds have appeared so far.\n\nThirty years after the Galactic Civil War Order Empire Republic and led by General Leia Organa searches for her brother , Luke Skywalker.\n\nOn , Resistance Dameron 's location from Lor San Tekka Ren , while Kylo Tekka 's droid BB-8 , near a junkyard settlement . Kylo using the Force . Stormtrooper FN-2187 Order , and they escape in a stolen TIE names FN-2187 '' . As they turn back to Jakku , they are shot down by a First Order Star Destroyer survives and assumes that Poe and BB-8 , Rey flee the planet in the Millennium Falcon is captured by a larger ship piloted by Han Solo , looking to reclaim their former vessel . The group is attacked by gangs seeking to settle debts with Han . At the First Order\ Base Leader Snoke Hux questions Kylo\ Solo says means nothing to him.\n\nThe Falcon 's map is incomplete . Han attempted to rebuild the Jedi Order and meets with cantina owner Maz Kanata to the Resistance is drawn to a secluded vault and finds the lightsaber that once belonged to Luke Skywalker gives Finn destroys a few planets including the Republic in search of BB-8 , Chewbacca are saved by Resistance , who is revealed to have survived the crash on Jakku arrives at Takodana and reunites with Han . Meanwhile , Kylo and takes her to Starkiller Base , Rey mind trick on a nearby guard.\n\nAt the Resistance , BB-8 , who has been inactive since Luke\ Base , the Resistance , Han , and Finn , and plant explosives . Han , calling him by his birth name , Ben refuses and kills Han , who shoots Kylo pursues Finn to the surface . Kylo in a lightsaber duel , leaving him wounded . Rey to defeat Kylo orders Hux to him to complete his training . Rey escape with the unconscious Finn . On D\'Qar , Chewbacca mourn Han\ follows to the oceanic planet Ahch-To and presents him with the lightsaber.\n\nFollowing the battle of Starkiller Base Leia Organa forces to flee D\'Qar fleet arrives . Poe Dameron dreadnought , but after the Resistance convoy . Kylo Ren 's son , hesitates to fire on the lead Resistance leadership and incapacitating Leia . Disapproving Admiral Holdo\ helps Finn , and mechanic Rose Tico Order\ arrives on Ahch-To and R2-D2 Falcon Skywalker . Disillusioned by his failure to train Kylo , and under self-imposed exile from the Force refuses to help \xe2\x80\x93 even after he learns of Han Solo\ 's hands \xe2\x80\x93 and believes the Jedi , Rey communicate through the Force and Kylo to train Rey tells Rey that caused him to choose the dark side , Luke upon sensing that Supreme Leader Snoke to destroy Luke\ Order that Kylo leaves Ahch-To . Luke Jedi 's ghost appears and destroys the temple by summoning a bolt of lightning , claiming Rey to learn from his failure.\n\nHoldo reveals her plan to discreetly evacuate the remaining Resistance members using small transports . Believing her actions cowardly and risky , Poe , Rose travel to the Canto Bight . They infiltrate Snoke\ are captured by Captain Phasma lands on the ship , and Kylo , who says he facilitated the mental connection between her and Kylo . Ordered to kill Rey instead kills Snoke 's guards alongside Rey believes that Kylo , but he instead invites her to rule the galaxy with him . Refusing , she fights Kylo Skywalker\ , allowing the evacuation to begin . Holdo 's fleet as the others flee to an abandoned Rebel Alliance . DJ 's plan to the First Order sacrifices herself by ramming Snoke\ escapes in the chaos , while Kylo Leader frees Finn , who escape after defeating Phasma . When the First Order , Finn attack with old speeders . Rey draw the TIE , while Rose from completing a suicide run against the enemy siege cannon , which subsequently penetrates the Resistance members to escape . Kylo Order\ , to no effect . He then engages Luke , Kylo projection of him . Rey to help the Resistance . Luke and dies peacefully on Ahch-To and Leia tells surviving rebels that the Resistance Bight and Rose and gazes into space.\n\nAccording to producer Gary Kurtz confirmed that he had the nine-film series plotted , [ 2 ] but due to the stress of producing the original trilogy and pressure from his wife to settle down , he had decided to cancel further sequels by 1981 . [ 3 ] to consider that it might be possible to revisit his saga . In 1989 , Lucas test created by Industrial Light for Jurassic Park said : \n\nIn 1992 , Lucas Fan Club in late 1993 . [ 6 ] Producer Rick McCallum Darabont Indiana Jones Chronicles Redemption continued writing the screenplays himself . [ 8 ] The popularity of the franchise had been prolonged by the Star Wars Expanded Universe envisioned for the new episodes.\n\nEpisode I : The Phantom Menace 19 , 1999 , and Episode II 16 , 2002 , both to mixed reviews . Episode III , the first PG-13 19 , 2005 . [ 9 ] The plot of the trilogy focuses on the fall of the Galactic Republic , and the tragedy of Anakin Skywalker\ Federation Republic in preparation for a full-scale invasion . The Republic\ Chancellor Valorum Master Qui-Gon Jinn Kenobi Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray Sidious Lord Federation\ to kill the Jedi escape and flee to Naboo saves the life of a clumsy Gungan Jar Binks , Jar Jar to Otoh Gunga . The Jedi leader , Boss Nass manage to obtain Jar Jar\ , the capital city of Naboo 's queen , Padm\xc3\xa9 Amidala Starship capital planet of Coruscant.\n\nAmidala\ blockade and the hyperdrive is caught in the crossfire , rendering it useless . They land for repairs on the desert planet of Tatooine , Jar Jar , and Padm\xc3\xa9\xe2\x80\x94disguised as one of her handmaidens\xe2\x80\x94visit a settlement of Mos Espa , and his nine-year-old slave , Anakin Skywalker . Qui-Gon within Anakin One 's currency being worthless on Tatooine wagers both the parts and Anakin\ in a podrace . Anakin , leaving behind his mother , Shmi route to their starship , Qui-Gon encounters Darth Maul Sidious\ . A quickly disengages and escapes onboard the starship.\n\nQui-Gon and Obi-Wan escort Amidala so that she can plead her people\ 's case to Chancellor Valorum Senate asks the Jedi Council as a Jedi refuses , concerned that Anakin . Undaunted , Qui-Gon vows to take up Anakin 's senator Palpatine to call for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Valorum grows frustrated with the corruption in the Senate . Qui-Gon are ordered by the Jedi Council , whom they had believed to be extinct.\n\nOn Naboo reveals herself to the Gungans as Queen Amidala Federation Jar leads the search for Viceroy Gunray . During a battle in the starship hangar , Qui-Gon to wait in the cockpit of a vacant starfighter . Anakin droid control ship in space . Anakin and Obi-Wan Maul he lays dying , Qui-Gon requests that Obi-Wan . Palpatine is arrested . Yoda promotes Obi-Wan Knight as Obi-Wan\ presents a gift of thanks to the Gungans during a celebratory parade.\n\nThree years after the beginning of the Clone Wars Master Obi-Wan Kenobi Knight Anakin Skywalker Chancellor Palpatine commander , General Grievous . After infiltrating Grievous\ battle Count Dooku executes at Palpatine\ crash-land on Coruscant reunites with his wife , Padm\xc3\xa9 Amidala begins to have prophetic visions of Padm\xc3\xa9 to the Jedi Council declines to grant Anakin Master , diminishing Anakin\ . Palpatine with his knowledge of the dark side of the Force travels to Utapau travels to the Wookiee to defend it from invasion . Palpatine reveals to Anakin that he is the Sith Lord Darth Sidious . Anakin 's treachery to Mace Windu Lord , Anakin 's hand , allowing Palpatine pledges himself to Sidious Vader Chancellor issues an order that causes the clone troopers to betray and kill their commanding Jedi kills the remaining Jedi to slaughter the Separatist declares himself Emperor Senate into the Galactic Empire and Yoda and learn of Vader\ and implores Vader on Padm\xc3\xa9\ . Obi-Wan in a lightsaber duel , and after gaining the higher ground , warns his former pupil to stand down . When Vader severs his legs and arm , leaving him at the bank of a lava flow , severely burned . On Coruscant battles Palpatine then flees with Bail Organa , sensing that his apprentice is in danger , travels to Mustafar.\n\nObi-Wan on the asteroid Polis Massa gives birth to a boy and girl , whom she names Luke , respectively , before dying . On Mustafar finds Vader , where his mutilated body is treated and covered in a black armored suit . Meanwhile , Obi-Wan conceal the twins from the Sith exiles himself to the planet Dagobah and the Emperor Star Organa and takes her to Alderaan to his step-family , Owen Lars ' 